April 17, 2025: Back to Basics:  The <=> Spaceship Operator
############################################################

:date: 2025-03-31
:slug: Apr-2025
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, April 17, 2025 at 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM
|
| Please be aware of and adhere to the `Microsoft Reactor Code of Conduct <https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/reactor/codeofconduct>`_
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1143 (12) Maple Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_ZDk2ZTJjYmQtMWQwOS00OTE4LWEwNzYtMDY5YzJmZDJmYWM0%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f7b2732f-da39-4d7a-b999-3d1a63f1d718%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 239 620 662 099
| Passcode: sK7CD3At
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874
| Phone Conference ID: 539 711 210#

Title
~~~~~
Back to Basics:  The <=> Spaceship Operator

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
The three-way operator <=>, also commonly referred to as the spaceship operator, was added to the C++ Standard in C++20.  Prior to C++ 20,
definitions of all six individual comparison operators (==, !=, <, >, <=, >=) were required in a class to cover every contingency.  From a logic point of view,
if the == operator and the < operator were defined, the remaining remaining operators could be expressed in terms of these two operators, but separate
implementations of all were still required.  Starting in C++20, this is all streamlined thanks to the spaceship operator.

Coverage in books and other educational resources, however, seems to be limited, with the discussion often confined to default cases
without much in the way of thorough coverage.  In this talk, we will work our way from the basics through examples of full user-defined
implementations of the <=> operator on a class.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Daniel Hanson is a former full-time lecturer in the Computational Finance & Risk Management program within the Department of Applied Mathematics at the University of Washington.
His appointment followed over 25 years of experience in private sector quantitative development in finance and data science. 
He currently serves as the Student Program Coordinator for CppCon.

Post Meeting Social
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Following the official meeting folks are welcome to wander over to the
`Coffee Haus <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Red+Robin+Gourmet+Burgers+and+Brews/@47.6310774,-122.1450308,17z/data=!4m14!1m7!3m6!1s0x54906d086b9bed03:0x4e2e9bc909cdf8d!2sRed+Robin+Gourmet+Burgers+and+Brews!8m2!3d47.6310774!4d-122.1424505!16s%2Fg%2F1tfdd4xn!3m5!1s0x54906d086b9bed03:0x4e2e9bc909cdf8d!8m2!3d47.6310774!4d-122.1424505!16s%2Fg%2F1tfdd4xn?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI0MDgyOC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D>`_ at the Overlake Red Robin (148th Ave and 24th) to continue chatting until they close the doors!

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Slides </talks/2025/NWCPP_2025_04_SpaceshipOperator_Final.pdf>`_

`Video <https://youtu.be/3vRcoZT5RK4>`_

Note: There were a couple "technical issues" during this meeting so you'll want to jump ahead by about 10 minutes at the start of the video.

`Code Sample </talks/2025/SpaceshipOperator.zip>`_

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
