June 19, 2025: Free Static Analysis Tools
#########################################

:date: 2025-05-29
:slug: June-2025
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, June 19, 2025 at 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM
|
| Please be aware of and adhere to the `Microsoft Reactor Code of Conduct <https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/reactor/codeofconduct>`_
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1143 (12) Maple Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_OWUxNGEzOTktNjIwOS00YWIwLWI2ZDItYjRlZWZlNjU5NTFi%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f7b2732f-da39-4d7a-b999-3d1a63f1d718%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 230 170 245 590
| Passcode: Em7sM3mx
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874
| Phone Conference ID: 294 921 835#

Title
~~~~~
Free Static Analysis Tools

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
Static analysis plays a crucial role in producing high-quality, reliable software. However, commercial static analysis tools can be prohibitively expensive, especially for small teams or projects.
This presentation will explore a selection of widely available free and open-source static analysis tools. After a brief comparison based on key criteria such as usability, extensibility, and
integration capabilities, one tool will be selected for a deeper dive. The session will then demonstrate how to install, and effectively use the chosen tool to enhance code quality.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Lloyd Moore is the founder and owner of CyberData Corporation, which provides consulting services in the aerospace, robotics, machine vision and industrial automation fields.
Lloyd has worked in software industry for 40 years. His formal training is in biological-based artificial intelligence, electronics, and psychology.
Lloyd is also currently the president of the Northwest C++ User's Group and an organizer of the Seattle Robotics Society Robothon event. 

Post Meeting Social
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Following the official meeting folks are welcome to wander over to the
`Coffee Haus <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Red+Robin+Gourmet+Burgers+and+Brews/@47.6310774,-122.1450308,17z/data=!4m14!1m7!3m6!1s0x54906d086b9bed03:0x4e2e9bc909cdf8d!2sRed+Robin+Gourmet+Burgers+and+Brews!8m2!3d47.6310774!4d-122.1424505!16s%2Fg%2F1tfdd4xn!3m5!1s0x54906d086b9bed03:0x4e2e9bc909cdf8d!8m2!3d47.6310774!4d-122.1424505!16s%2Fg%2F1tfdd4xn?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI0MDgyOC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D>`_ at the Overlake Red Robin (148th Ave and 24th) to continue chatting until they close the doors!

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Slides </talks/2025/FreeStaticAnalysis.pptx>`_

Video: Coming Soon!

`Code Sample </talks/2025/SimpleCudaFSA.zip>`_

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
