Sept 18, 2025: My Crazy Plan to Implement an AArch64 Code Generator
###################################################################

:date: 2025-08-30
:slug: Sept-2025
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, Sept 18, 2025 at 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM
|
| Note: We are now meeting at the Bellevue City Hall meeting room 1E-120! Free public parking is available from 110th Ave NE, and marked "City Hall Parking".
| Bellevue City Hall is located adjacent to the Bellevue Transit Center for those wanting to take public transportation!
|
| In Person:
| Bellevue City Hall, Room 1E-120
| 450 110th Ave NE
| Bellevue, WA 98004
| `Directions <https://www.google.com/maps/place//@47.6144305,-122.1929512,18z?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDczMC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D>`_
| Free public parking is available from 110th Ave NE, and marked "City Hall Parking"
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/meet/2708825918036?p=XXa6ZqIa7P4PhMdmkF>`_
|

Title
~~~~~
My Crazy Plan to Implement an AArch64 Code Generator

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
It’s insane to write another backend, but Walter is doing it anyway. The D compilers come in three variants: GDC (based on GCC), LDC (based on LLVM), and DMD (based on Digital Mars C/C++).
Walter implemented code generators for 8086, 386, 486, Pentium, Pentium Pro, and x86_64 because he had to to get a working compiler.
The GDC and LDC D compilers already support the AArch64, so why write another? If you’re on the spectrum, this presentation is for you!

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Walter Bright is the creator and first implementer of the D programming language and has implemented compilers for several other languages.
He’s an expert in all areas of compiler technology, including front ends, optimizers, code generation, interpreter engines, and runtime libraries.
Walter regularly writes articles about compilers and programming, is known for engaging and informative presentations, and provides training in compiler development techniques.
Many are surprised to discover that Walter is also the creator of the wargame Empire, which is still popular today over 40 years after its debut.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
