October 16, 2025: Agentic Debugging using Time Travel
###################################################################

:date: 2025-09-24
:slug: Oct-2025
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, October 16, 2025 at 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM
|
| Note: We are now meeting at the Bellevue City Hall meeting room 1E-120! Free public parking is available from 110th Ave NE, and marked "City Hall Parking".
| Additional free parking is located along the light rail line.
| Bellevue City Hall is located adjacent to the Bellevue Transit Center for those wanting to take public transportation!
|
| In Person:
| Bellevue City Hall, Room 1E-120
| 450 110th Ave NE
| Bellevue, WA 98004
| `Directions <https://www.google.com/maps/place//@47.6144305,-122.1929512,18z?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDczMC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D>`_
| Free public parking is available from 110th Ave NE, and marked "City Hall Parking". Additional free parking is located along the light rail line.
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/meet/2463414108661?p=xiDYeHjXKyrJvoSh93>`_
|

Title
~~~~~
Agentic Debugging using Time Travel

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
Everyone knows that debugging the code is twice as hard as writing it. A person can't be a great programmer without being great at debugging, and neither can an AI coding agent. Time travel debugging is a technique that has grown in both capabilities and popularity recently (Undo, rr, Microsoft's TTD among others). This talk includes:

- Demos of what it is and how it can work for you.

- Details some of how this apparently magic technology actually is implemented (including the different approaches).

- How the technology can make AI much better at debugging: whether debugging code written by AI or pre-existing code.


Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Greg Law is co-founder and CEO at Undo. He is a programmer at heart, but likes to keep one foot in the software world and one in the business world.
Greg finds it particularly rewarding to turn innovative software technology into a real business. Greg has over 25 years' experience in innovative start-up software companies.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Slides </talks/2025/TimeTravelDebugging_NW_CPP_MeetUp_Oct_2025.pptx>`_

`Video <https://youtu.be/6FwAc5xI8ps>`_ 

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
