May 15, 2025: What's New in Visual Studio for C++ Developers
#############################################################

:date: 2025-05-01
:slug: May-2025
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, May 15, 2025 at 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM
|
| Please be aware of and adhere to the `Microsoft Reactor Code of Conduct <https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/reactor/codeofconduct>`_
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1143 (12) Maple Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_Y2IwZjRkOWQtMzljZC00YTI2LWE5ZmItYmQ1NjgxMzk4OGM0%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f7b2732f-da39-4d7a-b999-3d1a63f1d718%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 241 472 899 031
| Passcode: T8pk3Ss7
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874
| Phone Conference ID: 115 564 483#

Title
~~~~~
What's New in Visual Studio for C++ Developers

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
Are you making the most of what Visual Studio can do? This session will cover C++ improvements from the past year, including code navigation, Build Insights, and native support for Unreal Engine.
With the rapid growth of AI tooling, GitHub Copilot has also evolved to better support developers. This presentation will cover updates to GitHub Copilot, including its two key interfaces in
Visual Studio: Copilot Chat and editor suggestions, along with how Copilot integrates with other parts of the IDE.
We’ll also explore C++ Dynamic Debugging, a new capability that lets you debug optimized code as if it were unoptimized, so you can diagnose issues in high-performance builds without sacrificing speed.
This session will be demo-driven, showcasing these features and improvements through real-world examples that demonstrate how they can enhance your everyday development workflow.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Mryam Girmay of Microsoft will be presenting. Additional detail coming soon!

Post Meeting Social
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Following the official meeting folks are welcome to wander over to the
`Coffee Haus <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Red+Robin+Gourmet+Burgers+and+Brews/@47.6310774,-122.1450308,17z/data=!4m14!1m7!3m6!1s0x54906d086b9bed03:0x4e2e9bc909cdf8d!2sRed+Robin+Gourmet+Burgers+and+Brews!8m2!3d47.6310774!4d-122.1424505!16s%2Fg%2F1tfdd4xn!3m5!1s0x54906d086b9bed03:0x4e2e9bc909cdf8d!8m2!3d47.6310774!4d-122.1424505!16s%2Fg%2F1tfdd4xn?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI0MDgyOC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D>`_ at the Overlake Red Robin (148th Ave and 24th) to continue chatting until they close the doors!

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
