Jan 16, 2025: The Black Art of Code Generation
#############################################################################

:date: 2025-01-02
:slug: Jan-2025
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, Jan 16, 2024 at 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM
|
| Please be aware of and adhere to the `Microsoft Reactor Code of Conduct <https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/reactor/codeofconduct>`_
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1143 (12) Maple Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_ZmEyMzRjMDEtZTkwZC00ZDFjLWI1YTUtMzEwYzYzMzlmZWQ2%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f7b2732f-da39-4d7a-b999-3d1a63f1d718%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 233 863 526 697
| Passcode: L9oc29xJ
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874
| Phone Conference ID: 760 934 517#

Title
~~~~~
The Black Art of Code Generation

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
It's become much easier to write a compiler these days, because one doesn't
have to write an optimizer or code generator anymore. Just the front end.
At least 3 code generators are available anyone can use for their own
language design - gcc, clang, and dmd.

Not many people want to write a code generator. The instructions sets are
of terrifying complexity. Only the nerdliest of nerds would want to build
one. If you're one of those people who would fearlessly peer into the gates
of hell, this talk is for you.

It's about how the dmd code generator works. I have no idea how the gcc and
clang code generators work, so this talk is specific to dmd. The basic structure
was designed for the 16 bit x86, and it has survived upgrades to support the x87,
large memory models, the 32 bit x86, the 64 bit x86, and the SIMD instruction set,
so it can't be too wrong.

Put your phone in airplane mode, and enjoy the ride! 

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Walter Bright is the creator and first implementer of the D programming language and has implemented compilers for several
other languages. He's an expert in all areas of compiler technology, including front ends, optimizers, code generation,
interpreter engines and runtime libraries. Walter regularly writes articles about compilers and programming, is known for
engaging and informative presentations, and provides training in compiler development techniques. Many are surprised to
discover that Walter is also the creator of the wargame Empire, which is still popular today over 30 years after its debut.


Post Meeting Social
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Following the official meeting folks are welcome to wander over to the `Cofee Haus <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Red+Robin+Gourmet+Burgers+and+Brews/@47.6310774,-122.1450308,17z/data=!4m14!1m7!3m6!1s0x54906d086b9bed03:0x4e2e9bc909cdf8d!2sRed+Robin+Gourmet+Burgers+and+Brews!8m2!3d47.6310774!4d-122.1424505!16s%2Fg%2F1tfdd4xn!3m5!1s0x54906d086b9bed03:0x4e2e9bc909cdf8d!8m2!3d47.6310774!4d-122.1424505!16s%2Fg%2F1tfdd4xn?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI0MDgyOC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D>`_ at the Overlake Red Robin (148th Ave and 24th) to continue chatting until they close the doors!

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
