October 17th, 2018: Avoiding Code Smells
##############################################################################

:date: 2018-10-02
:slug: october-2018
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| October 17th, 2018 at 7:00 PM
| Room 1083, Building 30,
 `Map to building 30 <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Microsoft+Building+30/@47.645004,-122.1243829,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x54906d7a92bfda0f:0xc03a9c414544c91e!8m2!3d47.6450004!4d-122.1221942>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.

Title
~~~~~
Avoiding Code Smells

Abstract
~~~~~~~~
I've been writing code for over 40 years. One thing that comes with
experience is one develops a nose for code smells. When you're asked
to help someone find a bug in their code, you can often just glance
at it and get a pretty good idea where to hone in on where the error
is likely lurking.

How is this possible in a large code base? It turns out that the human
brain is a very good pattern matcher, and by experience one learns
to recognize what code looks like that has bugs in it, i.e. it smells.
Sometimes, though, it is hard for the person to say just what it is
that triggers the smell, just that it stinks. I've tried to distill
out what those characteristics are.

Inevitably, since this is based on my own personal experience, it
is a highly personal list. Many you've surely heard before, I hope there
will be some you haven't recognized yet. Will eliminating smells actually
result in bug-free code? Maybe that's too much to hope for, but I bet
we get a lot closer to it.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Walter Bright is the creator and first implementer of the D programming language and has implemented compilers for several other languages. He’s an expert in all areas of compiler technology, including front ends, optimizers, code generation, interpreter engines and runtime libraries. Walter regularly writes articles about compilers and programming, is known for engaging and informative presentations, and provides training in compiler development techniques. Many are surprised to discover that Walter is also the creator of the wargame Empire, which is still popular today over 30 years after its debut. 

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Gordon Churchill is an embedded Linux specialist in medical devices and other safety critical systems.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

