March 21st, 2018: Algorithms Rule
##############################################################################

:date: 2018-03-01
:slug: march-2018
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| March 21st, 2018 at 7:00 PM
| Room 1083, Building 30,
 `Map to building 30 <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Microsoft+Building+30/@47.645004,-122.1243829,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x54906d7a92bfda0f:0xc03a9c414544c91e!8m2!3d47.6450004!4d-122.1221942>`_,
| ``*****`` **Note, this is our *new* normal meeting room!** ``*****``
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.

Title
~~~~~
Algorithms Rule

Abstract
~~~~~~~~
This talk will be a local repeat of the same presentation that was given at the 2017 Embedded Systems Conference in San Jose California.The talk will look at three different implementations for the machine vision operation of connectivity analysis. We'll look at the details of how each algorithm works and in addition we will compare the performance of each algorithm. Each of the algorithms was also used for a different purpose and in addition we will show that matching the algorithm design to it's intended use can give large performance gains. 

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Lloyd Moore is the founder and owner of CyberData Corporation, which provides consulting services in the robotics, machine vision and industrial automation fields. Lloyd has worked in software industry for 25 years. His formal training in biological-based artificial intelligence, electronics, and psychology. Lloyd is also currently the president of the Northwest C++ User's Group and an organizer of the Seattle Robotics Society Robothon event.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

