June 20th, 2018: Graduated, now what?
##############################################################################

:date: 2018-05-27
:slug: june-2018
:author: Lloyd Moore

Announcements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
We are still looking for 1 more volunteer to help run the club as a couple of the current volunteers are stepping down at the end of this year. If you are interested also please contact Lloyd.

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| June 20th, 2018 at 7:00 PM
| Room 1083, Building 30,
 `Map to building 30 <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Microsoft+Building+30/@47.645004,-122.1243829,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x54906d7a92bfda0f:0xc03a9c414544c91e!8m2!3d47.6450004!4d-122.1221942>`_,
| ``*****`` **Note, this is our *new* normal meeting room!** ``*****``
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.

Title
~~~~~
Graduated, now what?

Abstract
~~~~~~~~
In the past years volunteering at CppCon, it has been one of my efforts to discuss with college students some of the challenges that they face in attempting to secure post-graduation employment. Many of them have expressed their frustration at some of the job criteria listed in the job requirement and some have asked for help with their resumes. Therefore, this will be a training session to assist students and young engineers who have started their career, yet are looking to find something better.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Brett Searles - Experienced in doing multiple interviews and writing resumes for the past couple of decades. Also working on my own processor chip to be the cornerstone for the Holographic Surgical Center. 

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

