September 10th, 2003 — Thread Safe Object—Never Think About Thread Safety Again — David Brownell
################################################################################################

:date: 2003-09-01
:slug: september-2003

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Avaya Corporation <http://www.avaya.com>`_
| 6464 185th Avenue NE
| Redmond, WA 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Ask any developer, and they will tell you that multithreaded programming is hard.
Very hard.
One staple of this difficult style of programming
is the effective and thorough use of mutexes and critical sections.
Unfortunately this technique can be tedious and best and produce error
and race conditions at worst.
This presentation will introduce you to ThreadSafeObject,
a generic object that guarantees you will never have
to surround a variable or code with a mutex or critical section ever again.
We will cover generic programming, dive into the magic that
makes auto\_ptr work, and discuss meta-programming techniques - the code
that makes an object change behavior at compile time based on type.
Use ThreadSafeObject, and never think about thread safety again!

Bio
~~~

David Brownell has been using C++ in a professional environment for the
past 5 years. Graduating with a BSCS from Seattle University in 1998,
David has worked on faxing applications, automated scripting utilities,
secure communications technologies, generic programming techniques, and
peer-to-peer applications. David currently works as a Software Engineer
at Orrtax Software in Bellevue, Washington and serves as president for
the Northwest C++ Users Group.

`Click here </static/talks/2003/ThreadSafeObject.zip>`_
to download the source code and slides from the presentation
