November 10th, 2003 — The Future of C++: A Panel Discussion with the Experts — Andrei Alexandrescu, Scott Meyers, & Herb Sutter
###############################################################################################################################

:date: 2003-11-01
:slug: november-2003

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Overlake Hospital Conference Center <http://www.overlakehospital.org/conferencecenter/fs.htm>`_
| 1035 116th Ave NE
| Bellevue, Washington, 98004

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Please note that in order to offset some of the costs necessary to host
this meeting, there will be a **$10 charge to non-NWCPP and non-WSA members**.
Membership in the NWCPP is **free**, and is a great way to
ensure that you may attend this meeting for free.
To become a member, visit the `Membership <{filename}/about/about.rst>`_ page
and join our mailing list.
**Only members on the NWCPP mailing list and WSA members may attend the meeting for free!**

This meeting is a great opportunity to pick the minds of some of the
most well-known experts in the C++ community!
The meeting will be a moderated panel discussion and the three experts
will be open to questions from the audience regarding the current state of
the C++ language and the direction in which it is forging ahead.
This is a unique opportunity, and we hope that you can be a part of it.

Bios
~~~~

**Andrei Alexandrescu**
is a world-class expert in software development using C++.
In the C++ community, he is best known for his book,
`Modern C++ Design <http://www.moderncppdesign.com/book/main.html>`_.
Also, Andrei is a columnist for `C/C++ Users Journal <http://www.cuj.com/>`_,
a former columnist for the C++ Report, and a sought-after speaker at
conferences worldwide.

**Scott Meyers**
is one of the world's foremost experts on C++ software development.
He wrote the best-selling *Effective C++* series
(`Effective C++ <http://www.awl.com/cseng/titles/0-201-92488-9/>`_,
`More Effective C++ <http://www.awl.com/cseng/titles/0-201-63371-X/>`_,
and `Effective STL <http://www.awl.com/cseng/titles/0-201-74962-9/>`_);
wrote and designed the innovative
`Effective C++ CD <http://www.awl.com/cseng/titles/0-201-31015-5/>`_;
is consulting editor for Addison Wesley's *Effective Software Development Series*;
and is a member of the advisory board for
`Software Development <http://www.sdmagazine.com/>`_ magazine.
He also sits on technical advisory boards for several start-up companies.
A programmer since 1972, he holds an M.S. in Computer Science from Stanford University
and a Ph.D. from Brown University.

**Herb Sutter**
is a leading authority on C++ software development.
Author of more than
180 `technical articles and papers <http://www.gotw.ca/publications/index.htm>`_
and of the widely acclaimed books
`Exceptional C++ <http://www.gotw.ca/publications/xc++.htm>`_
and `More Exceptional C++ <http://www.gotw.ca/publications/mxc++.htm>`_,
he regularly gives invited talks at conferences around the world
and is available for
private `training and mentoring <http://www.gotw.ca/consulting.htm>`_
for new and current corporate clients.

Please note that in order to accommodate the increased attendance, this
meeting will be held on **Monday** at the **Overlake Medical Conference
Center** rather than our usual Wednesday meeting at Avaya.
