March 15th 2017: C++ Code Productivity with Visual Studio 2017
##############################################################################

:date: 2017-02-27
:slug: march-2017
:author: Lloyd Moore


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NOTE: We are in Building 41, Townsend this month. This is NOT our normal meeting room!!!

| March 15th, 2017 at 7:00 PM
| Room 1717, `Building 37 Room 1717 <https://www.bing.com/maps?v=2&cp=47.6385125270791~-122.126272380441&lvl=16&dir=0&sty=r&rtp=~pos.47.6385125270791_-122.126272380441_near%2016071+NE+36th+Way%2C+Redmond%2C+WA+98052___a_&mode=D&rtop=0~0~0~&encType=1&q=16071+NE+36th+Way%2C+Redmond%2C+WA+98052>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 16071 NE 36th Way,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~
An overview of what’s new in Visual Studio 2017 for C++ developers. Take advantage of improvements to productivity tools like IntelliSense, Go To, and Find All References, see the latest debugging enhancements, and learn more about the brand new from-the-ground-up installation experience. Going even further, you can learn about our new “Open Folder” mode, which lets you bypass the usual VS project system to open any folder with C++ code, as well as our investments in CMake support, to help you get working in CMake-based projects more easily. Visual Studio 2017 also comes with substantial performance improvements to save you time, better standard conformance in the C++ compiler and a set of workloads focused around different types of cross-platform projects targeting Linux, Windows, iOS or Android. 


Bio
~~~
Augustin Popa is a Program Manager on the Visual Studio C++ team. He works on the developer productivity experience, constantly looking for ways to save developers time in their day that can be better spent on other things. Productivity encompasses IntelliSense, code editing and navigation, refactoring, code visualization, formatting, and more. Feel free to send some feedback his way as well about Visual Studio if there is something you’d like Microsoft to work on. 

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!!


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!!
 

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels


