January 18th 2017: Debugging Intermittent Issues
##############################################################################

:date: 2016-12-29
:slug: january-2017
:author: Lloyd Moore


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

NOTE: We are in Building 34, room 1001 this month. This is NOT our normal meeting room!!!

| January 18th, 2017 at 7:00 PM
| Palouse Room, `Building 34 Room 1001 <http://nwcpp.org/images/MicrosoftMainCampusMap.jpg>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~
Debugging intermittent issues present a unique set of challenges and requirements to the developer. Of particular interest is question “did this fix actually solve the problem, or am I just getting lucky today?” This talk will show you how to determine, with some level of confidence, if the issue is really solved or just not showing up. In addition issues which only show up rarely have a habit of accumulating until some issue seems to be happening all the time. Techniques for untangling the interaction of multiple issues will be discussed. 


Bio
~~~
Lloyd Moore is the founder and owner of CyberData Corporation, which provides consulting services in the robotics, machine vision and industrial automation fields. Lloyd has worked in software industry for 25 years. His formal training in biological-based artificial intelligence, electronics, and psychology. Lloyd is also currently the president of the Northwest C++ User's Group and an organizer of the Seattle Robotics Society Robothon event. 

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Video <https://youtu.be/7weo84Er9tQ>`_ |
`Slides </talks/2017/IntermittentDebugging.pptx>`_


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cascade Engineering Services, Inc. is an engineering and technical services company providing engineering services in product engineering, consumer products, avionics, lab services in testing and calibration. Cascade Engineering Services also provides engineering talents to support our clients with their hiring needs.

The company is a privately held corporation founded in 1994 with headquarters in Redmond, Washington. We provide our services across the globe to our customers, ranging from small startup companies to Fortune 500 companies.

The multidisciplinary team here at Cascade Engineering Services has experience in multiple diverse industries. This enables us to design and implement the most effective solutions, reducing product time to the market and maximizing quality. We bring together a diverse team of skilled professionals, start of the art test and lab facilities, software development team, and robust CAD, FEA, and CFD tools to address diverse technical challenges. We can help take a product from conceptual stage through design, development, prototype and certification activities or we can work on focused areas our customers need help.

Client confidentiality is of utmost importance to us. We keep projects and products confidential and do not advertise our role in helping our customers develop their products.
 

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels


