April 19th 2017: The Curse of Knowledge: Humane Library Design with D
##############################################################################

:date: 2017-04-01
:slug: april-2017
:author: Lloyd Moore

Job Fair
~~~~~~~~~
Continuing with our job fair activities Aim Consulting will be available at 6:00 PM to talk to anyone looking for a job in more detail then we have done in the past. In particular this month Aim will be offering interview advice. How to prepare for an interview, how to handle the technical interview and what to do when you are not sure in an interview. Come have some dinner with us and bring your interview questions!

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| April 19th, 2017 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <{filename}/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~
The Curse of Knowledge is a cognitive bias where a highly skilled person unknowingly assumes that others have the required background to understand a given topic. But what happens when a group of intelligent, like-minded, software engineers design a library? This talk will compare and contrast library designs with an emphasis on how we can use the power of D to improve the usability of our libraries. This exploration of library design will culminate with a discussion of how well designed libraries can be used to rapidly construct the services that businesses rely on. While the examples are given in D, this presentation is applicable to anyone who builds or maintains libraries in any language.


Bio
~~~
Adam Wilson is a Software Engineer at Microsoft working on a large scale analytics service for Office 365. He has over 18 years of experience writing code in a plethora of languages, but has focused on C++, C#, and D. Adam also holds a Computer Game Development Certificate from Edmonds Community College which he earned in 2007. In his free time he enjoys spending time with his wife, reading science-fiction, flying light aircraft, and hacking on D code.


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AIM Consulting combines technical expertise with an understanding of business goals to solve your toughest challenges. We know technology and can help you design for the user experience, build innovative software, leverage data for actionable insights, implement modern processes and tools, and maintain critical applications and systems.
Our engagement model is designed with flexibility in mind for long-term partnerships. From strategy and implementation to sustained services, we provide technology consultants in custom configurations to fit your priorities and scale over the lifecycle of your solutions. 
 
Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Video <https://youtu.be/_grusHT92Eg>`_ |
`Slides </talks/2017/TheCurseOfKnowledge.pptx>`_

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels


