November 14th, 2017: C++ Terminology
##############################################################################

:date: 2017-11-05
:slug: november-2017
:author: Pete Williamson

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| November 15th, 2017 at 7:00 PM
| Room 1083, Building 30,
 `Microsoft Campus map <{filename}/images/MicrosoftMainCampusMap.jpg>`_,
| ``*****`` **Note, this is not our normal meeting room!** ``*****``
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.

Title
~~~~~
C++ Termionology

Abstract
~~~~~~~~
A good refresher on the basics of some of the terms used in C++ that may help beginners to write higher performant code.
The refresher will take a deep dive into compiler optimization, assembly generated code and computer architecture.
At first, the presentation will discuss some keywords and then move towards other terms that are used when discussing an application from the developers code down to the computer architecture.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Brett Searles

Currently working in the AR/VR field for mobile applications. Loves to work in embedded and low level circuitry design. Very active in the C++ community with volunteering for NWCPP, CppCon and trying to get a hackathon started for college age students.


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AIM Consulting combines technical expertise with an understanding of business goals to solve your toughest challenges. We know technology and can help you design for the user experience, build innovative software, leverage data for actionable insights, implement modern processes and tools, and maintain critical applications and systems. Our engagement model is designed with flexibility in mind for long-term partnerships. From strategy and implementation to sustained services, we provide technology consultants in custom configurations to fit your priorities and scale over the lifecycle of your solutions.
 
 
Resources
~~~~~~~~~
<Since this turned into a free-form discussion, there was no video made>

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

