May 17th, 2006 — The Power of None — Andrei Alexandrescu
########################################################

:date: 2006-05-01
:slug: may-2006

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Construx Software <http://www.construx.com>`_
| 11820 Northup Way #E200
| Bellevue, Washington 98005

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Exceptions. The final frontier.
We wanted to understand them.
We thought we'll love them, but they've lacerated our code.
We hated them.
We tried to do without them.
We couldn't because they kept on throwing themselves at us.
In bitworld, exceptions might have cast upon us the closest analogy
to a love-hate, abusive, co-dependent relationship.

This talk has two purposes.
First purpose is group therapy.
We will try to explain through a dialog linking cause to effect,
why things are the way they are.
Second, we discuss how to escape the abuse cycle
by summoning an unexpected ally: the type system.
Come one, come all for one cathartic hour.

Bio
~~~

Andrei Alexandrescu is a graduate student at the University of Washington in Seattle,
working on the lean and mean speech recognition machine
that we all know (since 1960) will be completed within 5 years.
In the C++ community, Andrei is best known
for his best-selling (and tuition-paying) books,
*Modern C++ Design* and *C++ Coding Standards*,
the latter coauthored with Herb Sutter.
Andrei has also published numerous articles
on software design and implementation using C++,
and in spite of his accent is a sought-after speaker at numerous conferences worldwide.
His website is `www.erdani.org <http://www.erdani.org>`_.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Click here </talks/2006/The_Power_of_None.ppt>`_
to download the slides from the presentation
