October 17th, 2012 — Casablanca: C++ in the Cloud — Steve Gates
################################################################

:date: 2012-10-01
:slug: october-2012
:author: George Reilly

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

October 17, 2012 at 7:00 PM, Microsoft Campus
`Building 41/1511 (Townsend)
<http://www.bing.com/maps/?v=2&where1=Microsoft%20Building%2041,%20WA&encType=1>`_

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

In this talk, I'll introduce the Microsoft incubation project
`Casablanca <http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/devlabs/casablanca.aspx>`_,
the aim of which is to help C++ developers productively
take advantage of cloud based computing without sacrificing performance.
Through a series of libraries and tooling,
Casablanca provides support for accessing Azure's platform as a service (PaaS) functionality
and general purpose client and server REST communication.
Key aspects about the libraries in Casablanca include cross platform support,
leveraging modern C++11 features for productivity,
and API design asynchrony in mind to improve application responsiveness and scalability.

With this talk, we'll go through the fundamental principles that
Casablanca is built on, an overview of the features it provides,
and several demos and examples illustrating what kind of applications can be built.
If you have interest in using C++ to author or interact with services in Azure
or REST services in general, this talk is for you.

Bio
~~~

Steve Gates is a senior tester on the Visual C++ team at Microsoft.
He has been at Microsoft for the past 5 years working on parallel computing in C++,
specifically the C++ Concurrency Runtime, PPL, and Agents Library.
Now he is focusing on the C++ experience for the cloud and Azure.
In his free time, Steve is interested in growing vegetables and food preservation.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Video <https://vimeo.com/51695153>`_ \|
`Slides <http://www.nwcpp.org/images/stories/casablanca.pptx>`_
