February 15th, 2012 — Expressing Parallel Patterns in Modern C++ — Rahul V. Patil
#################################################################################

:date: 2012-02-01
:slug: february-2012
:author: George Reilly

Come at 6:30pm for pizza supplied by 
`Amazon Digital <http://www.amazon.com/gp/digital/careers/jobs.html>`_.

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

We’ll do a lap around the most commonly applicable parallel patterns.
The goal of the talk is to map each of these parallel patterns to equivalent C++ code,
while taking advantage of the modern constructs in the language.
We’ll demonstrate this by looking at the Parallel Patterns Library
available in Visual Studio and Intel’s TBB.
We’ll also look at some tools within Intel’s Parallel Studio and Microsoft’s Visual Studio
that help identify, debug and analyze parallel programs.

This talk is for you, if you are looking to learn
generally accepted parallel patterns and start using them in your C++ code.
The talk will scale between 200 level and 400 level.

Note: The talk will *not* discuss C++ AMP, which deserves a full hour of its own.

Bio
~~~

Rahul V. Patil is a Lead Program Manager, in Microsoft’s C++ Parallel Computing team.
He started at Microsoft 8 years ago and has been a part
of the C++ concurrency runtime team since its inception.

About Rahul’s team: Parallel Computing team was founded 5 years ago
with the mission of bringing programming models and tools to developers,
so they may take advantage of the multi-cores and GPUs on the machine.

-  `Microsoft MSDN concurrency <http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/concurrency/bb964701>`_
-  `C++ PPL and AMP blog <http://blogs.msdn.com/b/nativeconcurrency/>`_

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

Watch the `video <http://vimeo.com/36917212>`_ of Rahul's talk
or read the `slides </static/talks/2012/parallel_talk_nwcpp_redux.pptx>`_.
