May 19th, 2021: Components of Successful Software Projects
#############################################################################

:date: 2021-04-29
:slug: May-2021
:author: Lloyd Moore

NEW MEETING LOCATION - ON LINE!!!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| DUE TO CONCERNS SURROUNDING THE COVID-19 OUTBREAK WE ARE HOLDING THE
| NWCPP MEETINGS ON LINE USING MICROSOFT TEAMS. PLEASE USE THE LINK
| BELOW TO JOIN THE MEETING.
|
| DURING THE MEETING PLEASE REMEMBER TO MUTE YOUR MICROPHONE.


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| May 19th, 2021 at 7:00 PM
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_ODlhMDJlNGMtMGZmNi00MDJiLWIzZTYtNTQzMTViMDViYzY4%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%221f061217-57cb-47e1-90bd-586015d9c2ff%22%7d>`_
| +1 323-849-4874   United States, Los Angeles (Toll)
| Conference ID: 457 317 069#

Title
~~~~~
Components of Successful Software Projects

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
A successful software project is much more than just getting the code to compile and run. Building a successful piece of software requires multiple stages of planning and execution. The success or failure of the project will depend as much upon the processes used for development the project as the final project itself. This presentation is a high level survey of key processes and considerations that should be addressed for any project, from the beginning to end. When to use them, when they can be skipped and what the consequences can be if a process is skipped inappropriately.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Lloyd Moore is the founder and owner of CyberData Corporation, which provides consulting services in the aerospace, robotics, machine vision and industrial automation fields. Lloyd has worked in software industry for 35 years. His formal training in biological-based artificial intelligence, electronics, and psychology. Lloyd is also currently the president of the Northwest C++ User's Group and an organizer of the Seattle Robotics Society Robothon event.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sorry no sponsor this month.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

