Nov 17, 2021: Conan Package Manager for C++ in Practice
#############################################################################

:date: 2021-11-01
:slug: Nov-2021
:author: Lloyd Moore

NEW MEETING LOCATION - ON LINE!!!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| DUE TO CONCERNS SURROUNDING THE COVID-19 OUTBREAK WE ARE HOLDING THE
| NWCPP MEETINGS ON LINE USING MICROSOFT TEAMS. PLEASE USE THE LINK
| BELOW TO JOIN THE MEETING.
|
| DURING THE MEETING PLEASE REMEMBER TO MUTE YOUR MICROPHONE.


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| Nov 17, 2021 at 7:00 PM
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_ODlhMDJlNGMtMGZmNi00MDJiLWIzZTYtNTQzMTViMDViYzY4%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%221f061217-57cb-47e1-90bd-586015d9c2ff%22%7d>`_
| +1 323-849-4874   United States, Los Angeles (Toll)
| Conference ID: 457 317 069#

Title
~~~~~
Conan Package Manager for C++ in Practice

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
The Conan package manager for C++ is useful in both simple and advanced development environments. Join the Conan team to see it in action, with a simple demo using OSS libraries and tools from ConanCenter, and a more complete demo showing how to create and upload a package including different binaries for different platforms to a private repository. Also, learn about many other unique and innovative advanced Conan features along the way.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Diego Rodriguez-Losada‘s passions are robotics and SW engineering and development. He has developed many years in C and C++ in the Industrial, Robotics and AI fields. Diego was also a University (tenure track) professor and robotics researcher for 8 years, till 2012, when he quit academia to try to build a C/C++ dependency manager and co-founded a startup.. Since then he mostly develops in Python. Diego is a conan.io C/C++ package manager co-creator and maintainer, now working at JFrog as Conan Lead Architect and C/C++ Advocate.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sorry no sponsor this month.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
