July 21, 2021: Test-Driven Development in the Larger Context
#############################################################################

:date: 2021-05-26
:slug: July-2021
:author: Lloyd Moore

NEW MEETING LOCATION - ON LINE!!!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| DUE TO CONCERNS SURROUNDING THE COVID-19 OUTBREAK WE ARE HOLDING THE
| NWCPP MEETINGS ON LINE USING MICROSOFT TEAMS. PLEASE USE THE LINK
| BELOW TO JOIN THE MEETING.
|
| DURING THE MEETING PLEASE REMEMBER TO MUTE YOUR MICROPHONE.


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| July 21, 2021 at 7:00 PM
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_ODlhMDJlNGMtMGZmNi00MDJiLWIzZTYtNTQzMTViMDViYzY4%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%221f061217-57cb-47e1-90bd-586015d9c2ff%22%7d>`_
| +1 323-849-4874   United States, Los Angeles (Toll)
| Conference ID: 457 317 069#

Title
~~~~~
Test-Driven Development in the Larger Context

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
When discussing or teaching Test-Driven Development, or TDD, a question often arises:  What about Acceptance Tests?  Are they part of TDD?  Can they also be used to drive development, as in ATDD?  If so, how do they relate to the unit tests that developers typically write as part of their process?  This presentation examines the differences, similarities, and synergy between TDD and ATDD, and places them into the overall context of an agile process.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Scott is a 40+ year veteran in computer technology, with a background in development, analysis, and design. He has also designed, delivered, and managed training programs, both in traditional classrooms and via distance learning. Scott teaches courses and consults on Agile Analysis and Design Patterns, Advanced Software Design, and Test-Driven Development. He is a frequent speaker at developer conferences such as JavaOne and SDWest. He is the author of “Emergent Design”, which won a Jolt Productivity Award,  as well as “The TDD Companion” and “The Design Patterns Companion”.  He currently works for PMI.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sorry no sponsor this month.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Slides </talks/2021/TDDInTheLargerContext_PMI.pdf>`_

`Video <https://youtu.be/qJRt0KVONeA>`_

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
