Nov 16, 2022: Open Discussion: Why so many languages?
##################################################################################

:date: 2022-10-29
:slug: Nov-2022
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| Nov 16, 2022 at 7:00 PM
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3a__Wz9Jgw-mLgNyP6-DvSPuYdBCN8TvSfeZL6C_QS9Z01%40thread.tacv2/1664646712879?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22fd66e145-f04c-469d-a568-c58090f00b63%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2281b13566-99fa-4534-a06e-662365d4f0d9%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 234 309 334 946 
| Passcode: qZgYD2

Title
~~~~~
Open Discussion: Why so many languages?

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
This month we are going to try something a bit differet. The meeting will be an open discussion on why
we have so many programming languages. The Tiobe Language Index (https://www.tiobe.com/tiobe-index/) currently
shows the top 100 programming languages, and this clearly isn't a comprehensive list. In recent years the
number of languages has also started increasing again with a newer generation of languages such as: Go,
Kotlin, and Carbon.

What are the benefits and costs of so many languages? Do we really need new languages or should we extend the
existing languages (which is also happening)? What do you tell a new developer coming into the field? As a
seasoned developer when should you look at learning a new language?


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sorry no sponsor this month.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Video <https://youtu.be/VCL7eP6vbg8>`_

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
