April 20th 2016: Untangling Threads
##############################################################################

:date: 2016-04-01
:slug: April-2016
:author: Lloyd Moore


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| April 20th, 2016 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <{filename}/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~
With the direction in developing hardware with more processing power, caching of data and power efficiency, it is necessary to review the complete ecosphere of processing threads in a multithreaded environment. What will be presented is a look at this ecosphere and a way to utilize a proposed STL to handle complex threading problems to be more computationally efficient. 


Bio
~~~
Brett Searles is the Principal Architect and Developer for Attobotics and is working on a universal compiler for embedded systems. He has also been working on a chip design and programming language for that chipset for a Virtual Surgical Center for the past 20 years. Brett is currently the Vice President of the NWCPP and the volunteer chair for CppCon. 

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Video <https://youtu.be/oU93WeV_bZA>`_ |
`Slides </talks/2016/UntanglingThreads.pdf>`_



A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Here at Akvelon, we integrate technology consulting, software development, and IT services in order to create successful business solutions. By leveraging Microsoft technologies to provide rapid, cost-effective implementations, Akvelon, in collaboration with our partners, develops cutting-edge products spanning multiple technology domains to consistently deliver high-quality solutions to our clients.

Our clients need help succeeding in their strategic goals and day-to-day missions. That’s where Akvelon comes in; we are problem solvers with deep technical knowledge, cutting edge ideas, and a passion for outstanding performance. We tackle the most difficult IT issues and challenges our clients face, delivering long lasting results with incredible value. We have years of experience helping clients drive innovation, productivity, and business performance.


Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
