March 16th 2016: Linux and IoT for VC Users
##############################################################################

:date: 2016-03-01
:slug: march-2016
:author: Rohit Patnaik


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| March 16th, 2016 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <{filename}/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~
Marc Goodner will talk about debugging remotely on Linux, debugging MCU targets and connecting to the Azure IoT hub, all from within Visual Studio.

Links to further details: 

- http://blogs.msdn.com/b/vcblog/archive/2015/11/18/announcing-the-vs-gdb-debugger-extension.aspx
- http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/visual-studio-connected-service-for-azure-iot-hub/


Bio
~~~
Marc Goodner is a program manager on the C++ team at Microsoft, focused on IoT. In his spare time, he helps run the local chapter of the Maker Garage, and works on projects related to 3-d printing and audio synthesis.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Video <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7ji2ATPVGBA&feature=em-upload_owner>`_ |
`GDB Debugger Extension <https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/vcblog/2015/11/18/announcing-the-vs-gdb-debugger-extension/>`_ |
`Azure IoT Hub <https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/visual-studio-connected-service-for-azure-iot-hub/>`_



A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Protingent is an employee owned (ESOP) technical staffing firm specializing in providing IT and engineering professionals for all areas of product design, development and test. We place high-caliber engineers with many of the leading technology companies in the U.S. We were founded in 2001 by an engineer and have always been dedicated to providing the right engineers that possess a high level of skill and knowledge regarding the technologies required to drive our clients’ success.
The intrinsic value of any enterprise comes down to the quality of its people. Our clients understand that cutting-edge products aren’t designed and developed in a void. It takes exceptional people and consistent communication and collaboration. These beliefs are at the core of Protingent and have been instrumental in our ability to build a team of exceptional people.
Corporate strategy is important, but the truth is that culture beats strategy every time. At Protingent, we are committed to finding the best and brightest and supporting them to a degree that promotes a dynamic of shared purpose. Being an employee-owned company has further cemented an engaged and collaborative environment. We work every day on maintaining and strengthening our culture and the relationships we have with each other, our clients and candidates.
The results have been profound. In other words, what kind of story does the data tell? We have been one of the fastest-growing companies in the United States for a number of years, have incredibly low internal turnover and are a top-tier vendor to numerous technology companies. Protingent has been recognized multiple years as a Best in Staffing Company by Inavero, an independent survey firm.  
 

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
