January 20th 2016: C++ Coroutines: A Negative Overhead Abstraction
##############################################################################

:date: 2015-12-18
:slug: january-2016
:author: Rohit Patnaik


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| January 20th, 2016 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <{filename}/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~
C++ coroutines are one of the few major features that may land in C++17. We will look at the current standardization status, available experimental implementations and develop a small coroutine adapter over raw C networking APIs that will beat hand-crafted  state machine in performance.


Bio
~~~
Gor Nishanov is from Microsoft's C++ team.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Video <http://www.youtube.com/attribution_link?a=5kfOVp9AEJk&u=/watch%3Fv%3D43xAD6DiF4Y%26feature%3Dem-upload_owner>`_ |
`Slides </talks/2016/CppCoroutines.pptx>`_


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Design Laboratory is a consulting company based in Bellevue, WA and has completed consulting projects since its founding in 1995 for companies in the Pacific Northwest and around the world. Today, Design Laboratory is managed by entrepreneurial veterans of software, finance and top-tier consulting. We offer cross-industry experience, deep expertise in strategy, operational issues, product and program management, plus world-class subject matter expertise in privacy issues and CRM implementation. Every Design Laboratory client, from global enterprise to growing start-up, receives customized attention, solutions and services that demonstrate our hallmarks.. DLI offers unique solutions providing end-to-end services for compliance management, content development, training design, marketing, video production, and project management. Providing accessibility support at Microsoft has been a service since 2011. We are a preferred vendor at Microsoft in project management and learning, and our contributions to compliance at Microsoft have helped to keep us on the preferred vendor list. We work closely with Trustworthy Computing (TwC) and the Legal & Corporate Affairs Regulatory Affairs team to ensure that we are up to date on the most recent Microsoft compliance requirements and processes, and that we are the go to company for providing compliance vendor services.
 

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
