May 18th 2016: C++ Modules - Spring Update
##############################################################################

:date: 2016-05-01
:slug: May-2016
:author: Lloyd Moore


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| May 18th, 2016 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <{filename}/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~
“Modules” are a frequently requested and long-awaited feature by C++ programmers.  The basic idea is a direct language support for (a) expressing the boundaries and dependencies of program components; (b) isolating source codes from macro vagaries; (c) scaling compile time, especially for large projects, given the ubiquity of “headers-only” template libraries; (d) spur innovation and deployment of semantics-aware developer tools.  I will give an overview of the design points, goals, with emphasis on how modules address the four major problems mentioned above.  I will also address standardization process and implementation issues.

Bio
~~~
Gabriel Dos Reis is a Principal Software Engineer at Microsoft, with interests in trustworthy software, programming tools and techniques. He is also a researcher and a longtime member of the C++ community.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Video <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mbhAQIZuI5k&feature=em-upload_owner#action=share>`_ 

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
We are here to help our customers with their biggest challenges have guided the solutions we’ve built, and our people have been defining our fun-loving culture. Along the way, we’ve accomplished some pretty amazing things; our teams represent flags from 17 countries and 4 branches of the armed forces, 55% of our management positions are held by women, 94% of our customers continue to put their trust in us, and our service mentality is engrained in our DNA.
 
Are you looking for that placement that will bring the right skills and energy to your team? Do you need a recruitment team with a laser focus on technical talent? With broad experience and deep expertise placing top-notch professional, IT, engineering and design talent, we provide job seekers with direct access to the industry’s leading recruiters, and clients with access to the finest talent the industry serves up. Our work across multiple industries enables us to be better counselors and service providers for job seekers and clients alike. A few of the industries we serve are IT, engineering, biotechnology, and healthcare.
Contact: Rachel Atchison, Account Manager  Phone: 425 372 1243

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
