February 18th 2016: C++ 2D Graphics Standardization
##############################################################################

:date: 2016-01-30
:slug: february-2016
:author: Lloyd Moore


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| February 18th, 2016 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <{filename}/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~
Since many modern day languages support 2D graphics, C++ Standards Committee wanted to incorporate into the main language standard. Even though the standardization of the 2D display was a huge undertaking, the need to standardize event handling was still necessary to add to the effort. Therefore, the presentation will be about the new proposal, that will be reviewed in Jacksonville, which will cover the handling of events and how it will interact the 2D display. 


Bio
~~~
Brent Searles is the principal Architect and Developer for Attobotics working on a universal compiler for embedded systems. Also been working on a chip design and programming language for that chipset for a Virtual Surgical Center for the past 20 years. Currently Vice President of the NWCPP and volunteer chair for CppCon.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming soon!


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Aerotek is one of the largest staffing firms in the US today, and specializes in staffing for contract, contract to direct, and direct hire placements in a variety of industries and skill sets.  Our local Technical Recruiting staff specializes in placing entry level to senior manager level individuals in a variety of industries including Aerospace, Medical Device, Industrial, and Consumer products with a focus on embedded engineering skill sets to include Hardware, Firmware, and Embedded Software and Test Engineering professionals from initial concept to final product release.
 
We also staff for placements as Mechanical, Electrical, Manufacturing, Process, Program and Project Management, and Quality Engineering skill sets to work in manufacturing and R&D companies in the greater Seattle area.  
 

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
