March 18th, 2020: C++ In Higher Education
#######################################################

:date: 2020-03-1
:slug: March-2020
:author: Lloyd Moore

NEW MEETING LOCATION!!!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| The March NWCPP meeting will be held in our new meeting location
| in Building 20 of the Microsoft Redmond Campus!! If you go to the
| old location the pizza (or anything else) won't be there!!!!


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| March 18th, 2020 at 7:00 PM
| Room 1115, Building 20,
 `Map to building 20 <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Microsoft+Building+20/@47.643754,-122.1334963,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x54906d71fb65cf23:0xac5670ed7fd8bcb4!8m2!3d47.6437504!4d-122.1313076>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.

Title
~~~~~
Teaching C++ in the Applied Sciences

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Daniel Hanson spent over 25 years in quantitative development in finance, primarily with C++ implementation of option pricing and portfolio risk models, and library development. He now holds a full-time lecturer position in the Department of Applied Mathematics at the University of Washington, teaching quantitative development courses in the Computational Finance & Risk Management (CFRM) MSc program. This includes intermediate and advanced classes in computational C++, and advising students in Google Summer of Code projects involving mathematical models implementation with C++ and R.


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CyberData Corporation was founded by Lloyd Moore in 1996. CyberData specializes in providing custom software and hardware solutions for robotics, machine vision, embedded systems and industrial automation applications. Our mission is to create high quality, innovative technology for the global marketplace.

CyberData also conducts internal research into the areas of robotics, machine vision and artificial intelligence. Specific technologies are then either licensed, sold as products or released as open source, depending on the specific nature and goals of the project. Technological developments are also provided directly to our clients through our consulting services.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

