July 17th, 2020: Culture of Code Reviews
#############################################################################

:date: 2020-06-27
:slug: July-2020
:author: Lloyd Moore

NEW MEETING LOCATION - ON LINE!!!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| DUE TO CONCERNS SURROUNDING THE COVID-19 OUTBREAK WE ARE HOLDING THE
| NWCPP MEETINGS ON LINE USING MICROSOFT TEAMS. PLEASE USE THE LINK
| BELOW TO JOIN THE MEETING.
|
| DURING THE MEETING PLEASE REMEMBER TO MUTE YOUR MICROPHONE. WE'LL HAVE
| TO SEE HOW THE SYSTEM PERFORMS IF EVERYONE STREAMS VIDEO, THIS WOULD BE
| NICE TO HAVE IF POSSIBLE BUT PLEASE BE PREPARED TO TURN YOUR VIDEO OFF
| IF IT TURNS OUT TO BE CONSUMING TOO MUCH BANDWIDTH.


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| July 15th, 2020 at 7:00 PM
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams 
| `Join Microsoft Teams Meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_N2I5NzhkNWQtYzM3Yi00NTA1LTgxMjItOWYzMjU3ZGVlZDU1%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%221f061217-57cb-47e1-90bd-586015d9c2ff%22%7d>`_
| +1 323-849-4874   United States, Los Angeles (Toll)
| Conference ID: 917 017 259#

Title
~~~~~
Culture of Code Reviews

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
Most everyone will agree code reviews are an essential component of producing quality code. Yet many groups still do not perform code reviews as part of their development process. In this talk I will share what I have learned on reducing the pain of incorporating code reviews into the development process. In particular we will look at techniques for reducing the time code reviews take, addressing some of the social dynamics that surround code reviews and how to develop a team culture that self promotes code reviews. 

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Lloyd Moore is the founder and owner of CyberData Corporation, which provides consulting services in the aerospace, robotics, machine vision and industrial automation fields. Lloyd has worked in software industry for 30 years. His formal training in biological-based artificial intelligence, electronics, and psychology. Lloyd is also currently the president of the Northwest C++ User's Group and an organizer of the Seattle Robotics Society Robothon event.


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sorry no sponsor this month.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~


Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

