Aug 19th, 2020: C++ Package Management
#############################################################################

:date: 2020-08-02
:slug: Aug-2020
:author: Lloyd Moore

NEW MEETING LOCATION - ON LINE!!!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| DUE TO CONCERNS SURROUNDING THE COVID-19 OUTBREAK WE ARE HOLDING THE
| NWCPP MEETINGS ON LINE USING MICROSOFT TEAMS. PLEASE USE THE LINK
| BELOW TO JOIN THE MEETING.
|
| DURING THE MEETING PLEASE REMEMBER TO MUTE YOUR MICROPHONE. WE'LL HAVE
| TO SEE HOW THE SYSTEM PERFORMS IF EVERYONE STREAMS VIDEO, THIS WOULD BE
| NICE TO HAVE IF POSSIBLE BUT PLEASE BE PREPARED TO TURN YOUR VIDEO OFF
| IF IT TURNS OUT TO BE CONSUMING TOO MUCH BANDWIDTH.


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| Aug 19th, 2020 at 7:00 PM
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Join Microsoft Teams Meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_N2I5NzhkNWQtYzM3Yi00NTA1LTgxMjItOWYzMjU3ZGVlZDU1%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%221f061217-57cb-47e1-90bd-586015d9c2ff%22%7d>`_
| +1 323-849-4874   United States, Los Angeles (Toll)
| Conference ID: 917 017 259#

Title
~~~~~
Take charge of your C++ dependencies with vcpkg

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
Dependency management is a pain point for many C++ developers. Many teams are beginning to adopt existing package management solutions, but there's still a large part of our industry managing dependencies manually. In this talk, you will learn how you can adopt vcpkg to make your development process easier, safer, and more reproducible.

This year, vcpkg is expanding significantly by supporting a declarative manifest file, making it easier to manage private libraries, enabling installations of specific library versions, and enabling binary caching workflows to quickly provision CI runs or developer machines.

Whether you're a beginner learning about C++ package management for the first time, or someone familiar with vcpkg who wants to learn about the latest improvements, this talk will give an overview of how to get started and manage libraries for real world projects. Vcpkg's long term goal is to satisfy workflows for all C++ developers, whether you are a professional developer working with millions of lines of code, or a student trying to get through some classes

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~~
Augustin Popa is a Program Manager on the C++ team at Microsoft, planning and designing developer experiences in the Visual Studio IDE. Some of his past projects include ClangFormat, Google Test, and Boost.Test support. More recently, he is working on vcpkg, the cross-platform C++ library manager.


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sorry no sponsor this month.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

