Feb 15, 2023: What’s Your Function?
##################################################################################

:date: 2023-01-28
:slug: Feb-2023
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| Feb 15, 2023 at 7:00 PM
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3a__Wz9Jgw-mLgNyP6-DvSPuYdBCN8TvSfeZL6C_QS9Z01%40thread.tacv2/1674918621029?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22fd66e145-f04c-469d-a568-c58090f00b63%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2281b13566-99fa-4534-a06e-662365d4f0d9%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 215 254 321 55 
| Passcode: y2wGEw 

Title
~~~~~
What’s Your Function?

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
A function is a fundamental building block in software development and a key tool for designing efficient and maintainable systems. This talk looks at the characteristics of a “good” function and provides practical guidance on when and how to refactor and utilize existing libraries to develop Better Code.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Sean Parent is a senior principal scientist and software architect for Adobe’s mobile digital imaging group and Photoshop. Sean has been at Adobe since 1993 when he joined as a senior engineer working on Photoshop and later managed Adobe’s Software Technology Lab. In 2009 Sean spent a year at Google working on Chrome OS before returning to Adobe. From 1988 through 1993 Sean worked at Apple, where he was part of the system software team that developed the technologies allowing Apple’s successful transition to PowerPC.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Sorry no sponsor this month.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
