June 21, 2023: Using the power of Assembly to fine tune an applications performance
###################################################################################

:date: 2023-06-04
:slug: June-2023
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location - We are going HYBRID!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| June 21, 2023 at 7:00 PM
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1034 (14) Alder Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_MGY3MDU4NzYtZWVkMi00ZjQ4LTliMTMtNGNhOTQ1NmMwYTc3%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22739ffc25-8fae-48b9-9505-1f3baa8f0eb7%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 221 084 547 694
| Passcode: zRSbFd
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874,,731463717#<tel:+13238494874,,731463717#> United States, Los Angeles
| Phone Conference ID: 731 463 717#

Title
~~~~~
Using the power of Assembly to fine tune an applications performance

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
Multi-part series that looks at how to incorporate Assembly code into an existing application. The first part is an introduction to Inline Assembly. Will explain how to incorporate Inline Assembly into an application. Will explore the benefits. Also will explain some of the pitfalls with using inline assembly. This presentation is just a discussion about this process. Future talks will explain assembler construction and other details.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Brett Searles will be the presenter.


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Please thank JFrog and Conan for sponsoring the our Meetup account!

Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!!


Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
* Follow us on `Meetup <https://www.linkedin.com/company/nwcpp>`_

