July 19, 2023: Real-Time Circuit Simulation with Wave Digital Filters in C++
############################################################################

:date: 2023-06-28
:slug: July-2023
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location - We're HYBRID!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| July 19, 2023 at 7:00 PM
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1034 (14) Alder Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_MGY3MDU4NzYtZWVkMi00ZjQ4LTliMTMtNGNhOTQ1NmMwYTc3%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22739ffc25-8fae-48b9-9505-1f3baa8f0eb7%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 221 084 547 694
| Passcode: zRSbFd
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874,,731463717#<tel:+13238494874,,731463717#> United States, Los Angeles
| Phone Conference ID: 731 463 717#

Title
~~~~~
Real-Time Circuit Simulation with Wave Digital Filters in C++

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
Real-time circuit simulation is a common challenge in audio signal processing, as many digital synthesizers and audio effects are based on emulations of existing analog hardware. Wave Digital Filters (WDFs) are a powerful tool for modelling the behaviour of electronic circuits. We'll give a brief introduction to the theory behind wave digital filters, and discuss the implementation of a C++ WDF library designed to perform circuit simulations in real-time. Along the way, we'll see how C++ concepts including object-oriented programming, template meta-programming, and RAII, have factored into the design of the library.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Jatin Chowdhury is an audio signal processing engineer and software developer, with a focus in music technology. He has previously studied at the Center for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics (CCRMA), and worked as an Audio Test Engineer for Tesla Motors. He currently lives in Seattle, WA, and runs Chowdhury DSP, a boutique audio software company.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Please thank JFrog and Conan for sponsoring the our Meetup account!

Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
* Follow us on `Meetup <https://www.linkedin.com/company/nwcpp>`_

