November 16, 2023: Remedial C++ 17 Library features - Part 2!
##################################################################################

:date: 2023-10-31
:slug: November-2023
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location - NOW ON THURSDAY!!!!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, November 16, 2023 at 7:00 PM
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1034 (14) Alder Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_MGY3MDU4NzYtZWVkMi00ZjQ4LTliMTMtNGNhOTQ1NmMwYTc3%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22739ffc25-8fae-48b9-9505-1f3baa8f0eb7%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 221 084 547 694
| Passcode: zRSbFd
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874,,731463717#<tel:+13238494874,,731463717#> United States, Los Angeles
| Phone Conference ID: 731 463 717#

Title
~~~~~
Remedial C++ 17 Library features - Part 2!

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
When C++ 17 came out 6 years ago, many of us weren't allowed to use it because our compilers didn't support it.  Now that most compilers have good C++ 17 support, let's do an overview of the features introduced into the C++ standard library with C++ 17.

This talk is a continuation of the April 19th talk, and will pick up where that one left off! The slides and video from Part 1 are listed below in the "Resources" section if you want a recap from earlier this year!

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Like the man in black said: "No one of consequence". Peter Williamson has been programming professionally for 30 years at companies like Boeing, Microsoft, Amazon, and Google. He’s been using C++ for most of that time, and attending NWCPP off and on since the 90’s. He has been known to talk about himself in third person.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Please thank JFrog and Conan for sponsoring the our Meetup account!

Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!


Resources - Part 1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
`Slides 1 <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rw43yd1t1LCQLnAPYZKeiRNvwrbVy9pNVmG2P8L7J9o>`_

`Video 1 <https://youtu.be/U6Eef79GRF4>`_

Resources - Part 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
`Slides 2 <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rw43yd1t1LCQLnAPYZKeiRNvwrbVy9pNVmG2P8L7J9o/edit#slide=id.g2371f91e6e5_0_0>`_

`Video 2 <https://youtu.be/y3uDSkvZRT4>`_

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
