May 15th, 2019: Math and C++:  Innovations and Improvement
##########################################################

:date: 2019-04-28
:slug: May-2019
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| May 15th, 2019 at 7:00 PM
| Room 1087, Building 30,
 `Map to building 30 <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Microsoft+Building+30/@47.645004,-122.1243829,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x54906d7a92bfda0f:0xc03a9c414544c91e!8m2!3d47.6450004!4d-122.1221942>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.

Title
~~~~~
Math and C++: Innovations and Improvement

Abstract
~~~~~~~~
Between enhancements added to the language beginning with C++11, and some of the mathematical capabilities in the Boost Libraries, C++ now has a lot to offer quantitative developers.  On the other hand, 20 years ago, C++ was the go-to language in computational finance, but demand has cooled in favor of other languages such as C#, Java, and Python.

We will start with a tour of new C++ features that are of immediate benefit to quantitative developers, followed by a quick trip through the good, the bad, and the ugly of Boost math features, and conclude with a discussion on how C++ might restore its luster within computational applications development.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Daniel Hanson spent over 25 years in quantitative development in finance, primarily with C++ implementation of option pricing and portfolio risk models, and library development.  He now holds a full-time lecturer position in the Department of Applied Mathematics at the University of Washington, teaching quantitative development courses in the Computational Finance & Risk Management (CFRM) MSc program.  This includes intermediate and advanced classes in computational C++, and advising students in Google Summer of Code projects involving mathematical models implementation with C++ and R.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Bringing people and positions together. Volt Workforce Solutions has become a premier global staffing resource by remembering that hiring is, in essence, matchmaking. We take an inherently challenging process – finding the right person for each job – and make it more efficient and successful for everyone involved. For almost 70 years, we’ve developed capabilities and services for every aspect of staffing. Whether you’re a job seeker or an employer, we can find the right fit for you. 

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

