January 23th, 2019: Remedial C++ 11
##############################################################################

:date: 2018-12-27
:slug: January-2019
:author: Lloyd Moore

Special Announcements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NOTES: 
THIS MEETING IS AT A SPECIAL TIME ON A WEDNESDAY, NOT OUR NORMAL MEETING CADENCE!!!

We do not have a pizza sponsor for this meeting so please plan accordingly.

If you are interested in helping out please also attend the NWCPP Annual Board Meeting 
at 6:15PM - Just before his meeting!

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| January 23rd, 2019 at 7:00 PM
| Room 1083, Building 30,
 `Map to building 30 <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Microsoft+Building+30/@47.645004,-122.1243829,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x54906d7a92bfda0f:0xc03a9c414544c91e!8m2!3d47.6450004!4d-122.1221942>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.

Title
~~~~~
Remedial C++ 11

Abstract
~~~~~~~~
OK, Ladies and Gentlemen, your boss said you needed to attend tonight.  Your boss noticed that you haven't been using the latest C++ constructs, and that your work could be even better.  Tonight we'll go over additions to the language in C++ 11.  Don't make your boss send you back here for C++ 14 and 17!

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Like the man in black said: "No one of consequence".  Pete has been programming professionally for 29 years at companies like Boeing, Microsoft, Amazon, and Google.  He's been using C++ for most of that time, and attending NWCPP off and on since the 90's.  He has been known to talk about himself in third person.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Video <https://youtu.be/i1zNN_U6tEQ>`_ |
`Slides </talks/2019/RemedialCpp11.pdf>`_

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

