March 20th, 2019: Bringing Photoshop to the iPad
##############################################################################

:date: 2019-03-02
:slug: March-2019
:author: Lloyd Moore

Special Announcements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NOTES: 
THIS MEETING IS AT A SPECIAL TIME ON A WEDNESDAY, 7:30 PM - ONE HALF HOUR LATER THAN NORMAL!

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| March 20th, 2019 at 7:30 PM
| Room 1083, Building 30,
 `Map to building 30 <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Microsoft+Building+30/@47.645004,-122.1243829,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x54906d7a92bfda0f:0xc03a9c414544c91e!8m2!3d47.6450004!4d-122.1221942>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.

Title
~~~~~
Bringing Photoshop to the iPad

Abstract
~~~~~~~~
A "behind the scenes" look at the challenges to bring one of Adobe's premier products to mobile devices and the role that C++ developments have played in overcoming them.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Sean Parent is a senior principal scientist and software architect for Adobe’s mobile digital imaging group and Photoshop. Sean has been at Adobe since 1993 when he joined as a senior engineer working on Photoshop and later managed Adobe’s Software Technology Lab. In 2009 Sean spent a year at Google working on Chrome OS before returning to Adobe. From 1988 through 1993 Sean worked at Apple, where he was part of the system software team that developed the technologies allowing Apple’s successful transition to PowerPC.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels

