October 15, 2014—Compiler Technologies—Jim Hogg
###############################################

:date: 2014-09-29
:slug: october-2014
:author: George Reilly


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| October 15th, 2014 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <{filename}/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Earlier this year, I taught a graduate class on Compilers
at University of Washington:
10 weeks of 3-hour, evening lectures.
The class project was an interesting mixture of technologies:
use Java to implement a subset of itself,
but generate native machine code via an Assembler text. 
In this session, I will outline what the class covered
– much of it appropriate for any language, such as C++,
that compiles to native code and has to concern itself
with calling conventions, stack frames, etc.
I’ll also reflect upon what I think worked well, and what, less well.


Bio
~~~

Jim is a Program Manager with Microsoft’s C++ Compiler Team,
involved in code-optimization.
In years gone by, he has worked on
Computational Physics, Seismic Processing and Operating Systems. 


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Protingent is a locally owned staffing company
with our corporate headquarters being in Bellevue, WA.
Protingent provides engineering and IT professionals
with rewarding and exciting work opportunities
at technology businesses throughout the Pacific Northwest.
We are committed to helping you enhance your career
while engaging in meaningful and creative work
that drives your own personal spirit and passions.
Protingent recruiters work exclusively with technology professionals
and technology companies—we have technical understanding, expertise
and are well connected in the technology community.
Our principals bring deep personal understanding
of both the business of engineering
as well as the culture and nature of the engineer who operates within it.
More than a database, we have an unparalleled client network
built from years of collaboration with our clients.
We have daily access to hiring managers
at some of the most exciting technology companies.
We can get your resume directly into the right hands.
Protingent offers benefits
including health insurance, dental insurance, 401(k),
PTO, pre-tax commuter benefits and supplemental insurance.

Please visit `Protingent.com <http://www.protingent.com>`_ for additional information.

| Attendes:
| Laura Garcia laura@protingent.com   
| Jeff Moorgate jeff@protingent.com   
| JOHN MARSH
| p 425 284 7762     f 425 642 8001
| www.protingent.com


Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Video <http://youtu.be/5WEX-yN34Ak>`_ |
`Slides </talks/2014/CompilerConstruction.pptx>`_
