November 19, 2014—Debugging, Profiling, and Diagnostics for C++ in Visual Studio vNext and Beyond—Dan Taylor
############################################################################################################

:date: 2014-10-19
:slug: november-2014
:author: George Reilly


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| November 19th, 2014 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <{filename}/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Are you using the Visual Studio Debugger or Profiler
to diagnose issues in  applications?
Join the Visual Studio team for a roadmap and discussion
of diagnostics features for C++ developers
in the preview releases of Visual Studio “14” and beyond.
In this session we will demo the brand new and exciting capabilities
that we have added to the debugger
and the Performance and Diagnostics hub (profiler tools)
to increase your productivity.
We will then share our plans for moving forward
and solicit feedback from you to help us shape Visual Studio.


Bio
~~~

Dan Taylor is a Program Manager on the Visual Studio team.
He and his colleagues (some of whom will be joining Dan for this meetup)
are the team that designs and builds the debugging, profiling,
IntelliTrace, and other diagnostics experiences
that help make Visual Studio the most productive IDE on the planet.


No Video Recording
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

THIS SESSION WILL NOT BE RECORDED.
It will include material which our speakers have opted to NOT have recorded,
as it is of a “non-public nature” at this time.
Because of this we will NOT be recording this session as we normally do,
so please plan to attend in person if you are interested in this topic.
We record as many sessions as possible,
but at the same time,
we also respect the speakers' wishes to control
how the material they present is distributed.
Thanks for your understanding, and sorry for the late notice on this change.


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Protingent is a locally owned staffing company
with our corporate headquarters being in Bellevue, WA.
Protingent provides engineering and IT professionals
with rewarding and exciting work opportunities
at technology businesses throughout the Pacific Northwest.
We are committed to helping you enhance your career
while engaging in meaningful and creative work
that drives your own personal spirit and passions.
Protingent recruiters work exclusively with technology professionals
and technology companies—we have technical understanding, expertise
and are well connected in the technology community.
Our principals bring deep personal understanding
of both the business of engineering
as well as the culture and nature of the engineer who operates within it.
More than a database, we have an unparalleled client network
built from years of collaboration with our clients.
We have daily access to hiring managers
at some of the most exciting technology companies.
We can get your resume directly into the right hands.
Protingent offers benefits
including health insurance, dental insurance, 401(k),
PTO, pre-tax commuter benefits and supplemental insurance.

Please visit `Protingent.com <http://www.protingent.com>`_ for additional information.

| Attendes:
| Laura Garcia laura@protingent.com   
| Jeff Moorgate jeff@protingent.com   
| JOHN MARSH
| p 425 284 7762     f 425 642 8001
| www.protingent.com


Resources
~~~~~~~~~

* Configuring **Breakpoints**
  (Conditional Expressions, Hit Count, Filter, and Tracepoints)
  is easier with the modern peek style UI,
  and more discoverable with the new breakpoint toolbar.
  As a bonus, you can now restore a deleted breakpoint.

    - `Read the blog post
      <http://blogs.msdn.com/b/visualstudioalm/archive/2014/10/06/new-breakpoint-configuration-experience.aspx>`__
    - `Watch the video
      <http://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Visual-Studio/Connect-event-2014/711>`__

* **PerfTips** when you break in the debugger
  (via breakpoints or stepping)
  give you an unprecedented early view into potential performance issues

    - `Read the blog post
      <http://blogs.msdn.com/b/visualstudioalm/archive/2014/08/18/perftips-performance-information-at-a-glance-while-debugging-with-visual-studio.aspx>`__
    - `Watch the video
      <http://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Visual-Studio/Connect-event-2014/718>`__

* We’ve made your **startup debugging faster**
  and added resiliency during func eval

    - `Read the blog post
      <http://blogs.msdn.com/b/vcblog/archive/2014/10/06/debugging-improvements.aspx>`__

* Debugging Android apps from any IDE and any language?
  Use **Visual Studio’s Emulator for Android**

    - `Read the blog post
      <http://blogs.msdn.com/b/visualstudioalm/archive/2014/11/12/introducing-visual-studio-s-emulator-for-android.aspx>`__
    - `Watch the video
      <http://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Visual-Studio/Connect-event-2014/516>`__

* Writing **C++ code for Android in Visual Studio**?
  Use our debugging support

    - `Read the blog post
      <http://blogs.msdn.com/b/visualstudioalm/archive/2014/11/12/debugging-c-code-on-android-with-visual-studio-2015.aspx>`__
    - `Watch the video
      <http://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Visual-Studio/Connect-event-2014/510>`__
 
* Always wanted to **diagnose memory issues while live debugging**
  (instead of post-mortem)?
  Kick the tires on our new Memory Usage tool
  in the all new Diagnostic Tools window

    - `Read the blog post
      <http://blogs.msdn.com/b/visualstudioalm/archive/2014/11/13/memory-usage-tool-while-debugging-in-visual-studio-2015.aspx>`__
    - `Share your feedback in our dogfooding program
      <https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/DD_VSPlat/Diagnostics/Dogfooding/Pages/default.aspx>`__
