April 16, 2014—The Chapel Programming Language—Thomas Van Doren
###################################################################

:date: 2014-03-22
:slug: april-2014
:author: George Reilly


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| April 16th, 2014 at 7:00 PM
| Microsoft Campus.
| `Building 40/1450–Steptoe <http://www.bing.com/maps/?v=2&where1=Microsoft+Building+40>`_
  (Cafeteria).

Come at 6:45 for pizza
`sponsored <|filename|/about/sponsors-howto.rst>`_ by
`Protingent <http://www.protingent.com/>`_.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~

`Chapel <http://chapel.cray.com/>`_
is an emerging parallel programming language
whose design and development are being led by Cray Inc.
in collaboration with academia, computing centers, and industry.
Chapel's goal is to make parallel programming more productive,
from high-end supercomputers to commodity clusters
and multicore desktops and laptops.
It supports a multithreaded execution model
via high-level abstractions for data parallelism, task parallelism,
concurrency, and nested parallelism.
Chapel has a multi-resolution model that allows users
to write high level abstract code
while still maintaining control over lower level details as needed.


Bio
~~~

Thomas Van Doren is a software engineer at Cray Inc. in Seattle
where he works on Chapel.
Previously he worked at Cozi Inc.
and graduated from the University of Washington.
Thomas loves open source software, automation, and working on large scale problems.


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Thank you for allowing us to be a sponsor NWCPP!
Protingent is a locally owned staffing company
with our corporate headquarters being in Redmond, WA.
Protingent provides engineering and IT professionals
with rewarding and exciting work opportunities at technology businesses
throughout the Pacific Northwest.
We are committed to helping you enhance your career
while engaging in meaningful and creative work
that drives your own personal spirit and passions.
Protingent recruiters work exclusively
with technology professionals and technology companies—\
we have technical understanding, expertise
and are well connected in the technology community.
Our principals bring deep personal understanding
of both the business of engineering
as well as the culture and nature of the engineer who operates within it.
More than a database, we have an unparalleled client network
built from years of collaboration with our clients.
We have daily access to hiring managers
at some of the most exciting technology companies.
We can get your resume directly into the right hands.
Protingent offers benefits
including health insurance, dental insurance, 401(k),
PTO, pre-tax commuter benefits and supplemental insurance.

Please visit `Protingent.com <http://www.protingent.com>`_
for additional information. 

Protingent Attendees:

| John Marsh — Recruiting Manager 425-284-7762 john@protingent.com
| David Jorden — Technical Recruiter


Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Video <>`_ |
`Slides </talks/2014/ChapelForNWCPPUsersGroup.pdf>`_
