June 18, 2014—High Reliability Systems—Lloyd Moore
##################################################

:date: 2014-06-01
:slug: june-2014
:author: George Reilly


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| June 18th, 2014 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <|filename|/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.

Come at 6:45 for pizza
`sponsored <|filename|/about/sponsors-howto.rst>`_ by
`VMware <http://www.vmware.com/company/careers>`_.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~

This talk will explore various software techniques
that can be used to harden a software system
and make it more reliable in a harsh environment.
Specifically we will be looking at cases
where the software needs to be more reliable than “average”
but does not justify investment in a formal specification such as MISRA or DO-178B.

Bio
~~~

`Lloyd Moore <https://www.linkedin.com/in/lloydamoore>`_ is the founder and owner of
`CyberData Corporation <http://www.cyberdata-robotics.com/>`_,
which provides consulting services
in the robotics, machine vision and industrial automation fields.
Lloyd has worked in software industry for 25 years.
His formal training in biological-based artificial intelligence, electronics, and psychology.
Lloyd is also currently the president of the Northwest C++ User's Group
and an organizer of the
`Seattle Robotics Society Robothon <http://www.robothon.org/>`_ event.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

VMware recruiting is pleased to be a NWCPP sponsor.
VMware has pioneered virtualization of x86 platform
separating software from underlying hardware.
We’re the leader in virtualization infrastructure solutions with three main product groups:

1. SDDC
2. end user computing
3. hybrid cloud computing 
 
VMware is currently ramping up our Bellevue office location
with roles on the Cloud Directory team.
The Cloud technology we develop continues to have an unprecedented impact on our customers,
and our rapid and continuing growth is proof of this.
To continue this momentum, we seek passionate and innovative software engineers
that can imagine, develop, and deliver transformative solutions
that impact and improve IT operations.
 
We’re assembling an invitation only hiring event August 14th-17th
for seasoned backend Software Developers.
If you’re interested in attending
or just would like more information about the hiring event
or opportunities VMware in general,
please send me your resume or contact me at: Halla@Vmware.com
