February 15, 2014—Lightning Rounds: A collection of case studies in C++
#######################################################################

:date: 2014-02-01
:slug: february-2014
:author: George Reilly

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| February 19th, 2014 at 7:00 PM
| Microsoft Campus.
| `Building 40/1450–Steptoe <http://www.bing.com/maps/?v=2&where1=Microsoft+Building+40>`_
  (Cafeteria).

Come at 6:45 for pizza
`sponsored <|filename|/about/sponsors-howto.rst>`_ by
`Aerotek <http://www.aerotek.com/>`_.

We are going to do something a bit different this month.
Rather than have one speaker, we are going to do a series of “lightning rounds”
where each speaker will present a short case study of a difficult problem
they have had in the past and how they solved it with C++.
We are still pulling the list of speakers together, so stay tuned for details.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~

TBD


Bio
~~~

TBD


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We wanted to introduce ourselves to the C++ community!
Aerotek is a national staffing firm with a 30 year legacy of being the best!
Aerotek is the largest technical staffing firm in the US, with over 200 offices nationwide.
We staff for a variety of industries for a wide range of skill sets,
including engineering, skilled trade, administrative and office support,
and scientific and clinical studies.
My name is Hope Rich, and I work in our engineering division
with a focus on embedded systems as a Sr. Engineering Recruiter for the greater Seattle area.
My partner Tyler Roush and myself work with companies
in the aerospace, medical device, and consumer electronics industries
to help staff for engineering needs from an embedded SW background,
as well as for roles in mechanical, electrical, manufacturing,
and quality engineering skill sets.
In embedded, we focus to connect great engineers with
a background in HW design, Firmware, middleware,
and embedded SW applications development and test.
Please visit our web page for additional details at http://www.aerotek.com/
 
Sincerely,

=====================    =====================
Hope Rich                Tyler Roush
hrich@aerotek.com        troush@aerotek.com
(425)893-6051            (425)893-6026
=====================    =====================
