September 17, 2014—Parallelism in the Standard C++: What to Expect in C++ 17—Artur Laksberg
###########################################################################################

:date: 2014-08-28
:slug: september-2014
:author: George Reilly


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| September 17th, 2014 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <|filename|/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Parallelism in C++ has become more accessible
thanks to the plethora of libraries developed by the industry in the last decade or so.
The time has come to bring the innovations developed in these libraries into the mainstream
– the ISO C++ Standard.
In this talk we’ll dive into a couple of proposals that are currently on the agenda
for the next major version of the C++ Standard
– the Task Regions and the Parallel STL.
Together, these proposals aim to make writing portable parallel code in C++
easy and productive.

Bio
~~~

Artur Laksberg leads the Visual C++ Libraries team at Microsoft.
His interests include concurrency, programming language and library design,
and modern C++.
Artur is one of the co-authors of the Parallel STL proposal;
his team has implemented a prototype of the proposal.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Aerotek is a leading provider of staff augmentation services
for engineering disciplines throughout the United States and abroad.
We focus on a number of disciplines in engineering
including specializing in areas of Embedded Systems
with positions in Hardware, Electrical Systems, and Software Engineering.
Positions that we offer include
Contract, Contract to Hire, and Direct Placement
with opportunities across industries
in Aerospace, Medical device, and Consumer products/Industrial goods.
In the Puget Sound
Aerotek currently has offices located in Bellevue, Everett, and Federal Way.
 
| Tyler Roush
| Technical Recruiter
| Embedded Systems -Engineering
| 425-893-6026   Phone
| 425-893-6090   Fax
| 11000 N.E. 33rd Pl.
| Suite 200
| Bellevue, WA, 98004
| http://www.aerotek.com/
