May 21, 2014—Agile Architecture—Alan Shalloway
##############################################

:date: 2014-04-27
:slug: may-2014
:author: George Reilly


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| May 21st, 2014 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <|filename|/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.

Come at 6:45 for pizza
`sponsored <|filename|/about/sponsors-howto.rst>`_ by
`Xtreme Consulting <http://www.xtremeconsulting.com/careers>`_.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Never has architecture been more important than now.
Scrum acknowledges the need for quality code
but gives no advice on how to achieve Agile architecture.
The Kanban Method ignores it completely.
But as Agile moves into larger organizations we cannot continue to ignore it.

This talk discusses why Agile architecture is so important.
It then discusses what Agile architecture needs to accomplish
and provides some methods in how to achieve this.
This seminar will touch on the why, what and how as summarized here:

**Why**: Architecture, whether Agile or otherwise, needs to provide the following:

* A vision

* Enable extensions to the system

* Enable new ways of implementing existing concepts

* Foster testability throughout the system

* De-couple systems from the application

* Facilitate reuse of common functions across teams

**How**: To build Agile architectures, one must be able to:

* Do Emergent design

* Do Testing at the behavior and functional level

* Understand the different perspectives of conceptual Vs specification;
  creation from using;
  and system architecture from application architecture

**What**: Agile architectures will then enable us to:

* Inject new concepts with little to no rework

* Add new implementations of existing concepts
  with only minimally affecting the existing system

* Change the system with little risk of introducing errors
  and full confidence that if you do you will detect them


Bio
~~~

`Al Shalloway <https://twitter.com/alshalloway>`_ is the founder and CEO
of `Net Objectives <http://www.netobjectives.com/>`_.
With over 40 years of experience,
Al is an industry thought leader in Lean, Kanban,
product portfolio management, Scrum and agile design.
He helps companies transition to Lean and Agile methods enterprise-wide
as well teaches courses in these areas.
Al is a SAFe Program Consultant as well as a co-founder of the Lean Systems Society.
Al has developed training and coaching methods for Lean-Agile
that have helped Net Objectives' clients
achieve long-term, sustainable productivity gains.
He is a popular speaker at prestigious conferences worldwide.
He is the primary author of Design Patterns Explained:
A New Perspective on Object-Oriented Design,
Lean-Agile Pocket Guide for Scrum Teams,
Lean-Agile Software Development:
Achieving Enterprise Agility and Essential Skills for the Agile Developer.
Al has worked in literally dozens of industries over his career.
He is a co-founder and board member for the Lean Software and Systems Consortium.
He has a Masters in Computer Science from M.I.T.
as well as a Masters in Mathematics from Emory University.


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We’re thrilled to be a NWCPP sponsor!
Xtreme Consulting is locally owned and headquartered in Kirkland, WA.
We provide a wide-range of business and IT consulting solutions,
managed services, and staff augmentation.
We actively recruit for fun, smart, and career-driven IT professionals
who bring an enthusiasm for personal growth
and accelerating success for our clients.
Xtreme’s consultants are provided the opportunity to work with and for
some of the best technology companies in the industry.
We work hard to create a passionate, supportive environment
where employees can reach their career development goals,
enjoy exceptional benefits, and have fun all at the same time.

Xtreme focuses on solutions and services
including analysis, design, architecture, development, testing,
implementation, maintenance and support of a variety of software technologies
with specific emphasis on portal development, technical content creation,
virtual machine environments and client and server deployment.
Visit `xtremeconsulting.com <http://xtremeconsulting.com>`_ for more information.
You can view and apply to our open positions at
`xtremeconsulting.com/careers <http://xtremeconsulting.com/careers>`_.

| Xtreme Contact:
| Melissa Potera – Senior Recruiter (Technical focus)
| melissap@xtremeconsulting.com
| (425) 861-9460 Ext. 229


Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Video <http://youtu.be/76xYZqVBDkQ>`_ |
`Slides </talks/2014/AgileArchitecture_cpp_v6as.pdf>`_
