September 18th, 2002 — Understanding templates as a form of weak typing — Bruce Eckel
#####################################################################################

:date: 2002-09-01
:slug: september-2002

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Avaya Corporation <http://www.avaya.com>`_
| 6464 185th Avenue NE
| Redmond, WA 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

As I learned the Python programming language (see
`www.Python.org <http://www.python.org>`_), I began to understand the
concept of weak/latent typing (which the Smalltalk programmers are so
fond of). At first, this seems like a very heretical and dangerous
approach, but with time I not only began to see how powerful it is, but
also to understand C++ templates in terms of weak typing. I found this
gave me a much deeper understanding of the value and use of templates.
In this talk, I will introduce the Python language and the concept of
weak typing, and I will show C++ templates in the same light. You should
come away with a deeper grasp of templates and where they can be put to
use.

Bio
~~~

Bruce Eckel (`www.BruceEckel.com <http://www.bruceeckel.com>`_) is the
author of Thinking in Java (Prentice-Hall, 1998, 2nd Edition, 2000), the
Hands-On Java Seminar CD ROM (available on the Web site), Thinking in
C++ (PH 1995; 2nd edition 2000), C++ Inside & Out (Osborne/McGraw-Hill
1993), among others. He's given hundreds of presentations throughout the
world, published over 150 articles in numerous magazines, was a founding
member of the ANSI/ISO C++ committee and speaks regularly at
conferences. He provides public and private seminars & design consulting
in C++ and Java.
