September 21st, 2005 — Two Views of C++ — Scott Meyers
######################################################

:date: 2005-09-01
:slug: september-2005

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Construx Software <http://www.construx.com>`_
| 11820 Northup Way #E200
| Bellevue, Washington 98005

Abstract: Two Views of C++
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In 2002, Bertrand Meyer, inventor of Eiffel,
asked me to give a talk on C++ at ETH in Zurich,
where he is a member of the Software Engineering faculty.
Meyer is a well-known C++-hater, so the choice of topic was a delicate one.
I ultimately decided to give two mini-talks,
one making C++ look bad and one making it look good.

The two talks are:

-   "The meaning of 'f(x)' in C++," an exploration of the rules for
    function overloading, template instantiation, template specialization,
    and the semantic mess that results from their interactions.

-   "Dimensional Analysis in C++," a purely compile-time approach to
    making sure that physical quantities (e.g., mass, velocity, distance, etc.)
    are used consistently in C++ programs.

I'll also be plugging the third edition of *Effective C++,* reminding
everyone that they should own *n*\ +2 copies, where *n* is the number of cars they own:
1 for home, 1 for work, and *n* for reading when they are stuck in traffic.

I may also show slides of recent trips I've taken to China and India.
Or maybe of our new dog, Darla.
Maybe even video.
Whatever.
We'll see :-)

Bio
~~~


Scott Meyers is one of the world's foremost experts on C++ software development.
He wrote the best-selling *Effective C++* series
(`Effective C++ <http://www.awl.com/cseng/titles/0-201-92488-9/>`_,
`More Effective C++ <http://www.awl.com/cseng/titles/0-201-63371-X/>`_,
and `Effective STL <http://www.awl.com/cseng/titles/0-201-74962-9/>`_);
wrote and designed the innovative
`Effective C++ CD <http://www.awl.com/cseng/titles/0-201-31015-5/>`_;
is consulting editor for Addison Wesley's *Effective Software Development Series*;
and is a member of the advisory board for
`Software Development <http://www.sdmagazine.com/>`_ magazine.
He also sits on technical advisory boards for several start-up companies.
A programmer since 1972, he holds an M.S. in Computer Science from Stanford University
and a Ph.D. from Brown University.

`Click here </talks/2005/twoViews.pdf>`_
to download the slides from the presentation
