March 23rd, 2005 — Evolving C++ onto the CLI — Stan Lippman
###########################################################

:date: 2005-03-01
:slug: march-2005

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Construx Software <http://www.construx.com>`_
| 11820 Northup Way #E200
| Bellevue, Washington 98005

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

C++ reflects a static object model optimized for executable speed and size.

This has made it the language of choice for systems programming.
The Common Language Infrastructure (CLI) represents a dynamic object model
optimized for flexibility and security.
C++ programmers wishing to inhabit the CLI development space until now
have had to leave C++ and generally work in C# (or Java).
In this talk, I'll discuss our evolution of C++
to adapt to the CLI programming environment,
and couch it in a more general look at program language lifetimes
and suggest some possible future directions.

Bio
~~~

Stan Lippman is Architect with the Visual C++ team at Microsoft.
He began working on C++ with its inventor Bjarne Stroustrup back in 1984
within Bell Laboratories.
In between, he worked in Feature Animation at Disney and DreamWorks,
was a Distinguished Consultant with JPL,
and was a Software Technical Director on Fantasia 2000.
He is the author of *C++ Primer, 4e* (2005) and *Inside the C++ Object Model*.
For the last three years,
he has been involved in the work to adapt C++ onto the CLI environment.

`Click here </talks/2005/EvolvingC___Short.ppt>`_
to download the slides from the presentation
