May 21, 2026: Productive Parallel Programming at all scales with Chapel
#######################################################################

:date: 2026-04-29
:slug: May-2026
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, May 21, 2026 at 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM
|
| In Person:
| Bellevue City Hall, Room 1E-110
| 450 110th Ave NE
| Bellevue, WA 98004
| `Directions <https://www.google.com/maps/place//@47.6144305,-122.1929512,18z?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDczMC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D>`_
| Free public parking is available from 110th Ave NE, and marked "City Hall Parking". Additional free parking is located along the light rail line.
| Bellevue City Hall is located adjacent to the Bellevue Transit Center for those wanting to take public transportation!
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/meet/237046474430599?p=jA15NDBz3K3tWeiOLG>`_
|

Title
~~~~~
Productive Parallel Programming at all scales with Chapel

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~

Chapel is a language for productive parallel programming, whether you're targeting a laptop, cloud, or supercomputer.
This talk will begin with a quick (re)introduction to Chapel for any attendees who missed our previous NWC++ talks or need a refresher.
We'll then cover some highlights from the past few years, including Chapel's 2.0 release, support for targeting GPUs, notable new user applications,
and joining the Linux Foundation's High Performance Software Foundation (HPSF).  Along the way, we'll do a live demo of Chapel in action.


Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Brad Chamberlain is a founding member of the Chapel programming language project and has served as its technical lead since 2005.
He is a Distinguished Technologist at HPE (formerly Cray Inc.) whose career has focused on improving the productivity of supercomputer users,
particularly through the design and implementation of programming languages.  Brad earned his Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of Washington,
with which he remains associated as an Affiliate Professor of the Paul G. Allen School.

Jade Abraham is a software engineer at HPE, working on developing the Chapel programming language. Their work has focused on vectorization,
portability, and tooling. They received their Masters degree from Arizona State University in 2022 in computer science, with a focus on secure compiler development.
When Jade isn't programming, they enjoy line dancing and going hiking.


Resources
~~~~~~~~~

Coming Soon!


Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
