February 19, 2026: C++ Saturation Arithmetic
############################################

:date: 2026-02-01
:slug: Feb-2026
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, February 19, 2026 at 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM
|
| In Person:
| Bellevue City Hall, Room 1E-120
| 450 110th Ave NE
| Bellevue, WA 98004
| `Directions <https://www.google.com/maps/place//@47.6144305,-122.1929512,18z?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDczMC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D>`_
| Free public parking is available from 110th Ave NE, and marked "City Hall Parking". Additional free parking is located along the light rail line.
| Bellevue City Hall is located adjacent to the Bellevue Transit Center for those wanting to take public transportation!
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3a3xjDwwUBL84k3RWEZvxMXAeq805G1Db2rKUY4cBfYLs1%40thread.tacv2/1769965169237?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22f45d2dfd-696a-4229-a0c7-ca3f187583fe%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22d709b655-8df5-4b36-92ee-2cd675614e8d%22%7d>`_
|

Title
~~~~~
C++ Saturation Arithmetic

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~

Many real world problems require the use of “saturation arithmetic” to properly code the solution. This has traditionally been problematic as in C++ the flags register is not directly
accessible. C++ 26 supports saturation arithmetic via the standard library and this feature is available NOW in several compilers.

We’ll start with a definition of what “saturation arithmetic” is, then we’ll look at the efficiency of the code produced for the X86-64 and AARCH64 instruction sets for the GCC and Clang compilers.


Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Lloyd Moore is the founder and owner of CyberData Corporation, which provides consulting services in the aerospace, robotics, machine vision and industrial automation fields.
Lloyd has worked in software industry for 35 years. His formal training is in biological-based artificial intelligence, electronics, and psychology. Lloyd is also currently
the president of the Northwest C++ User's Group and an organizer of the Seattle Robotics Society Robothon event. 


Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Slides </talks/2026/SaturationArithmetic.pptx>`_

`Video <https://youtu.be/GGoOqel4uR8>`_ 


Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
