January 15, 2026: The CUDA C++ Developer's Toolbox
##################################################

:date: 2025-12-19
:slug: Jan-2026
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, January 15, 2026 at 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM
|
| Note: We are now meeting at the Bellevue City Hall meeting room 1E-120! Free public parking is available from 110th Ave NE, and marked "City Hall Parking".
| Additional free parking is located along the light rail line.
| Bellevue City Hall is located adjacent to the Bellevue Transit Center for those wanting to take public transportation!
|
| In Person:
| Bellevue City Hall, Room 1E-120
| 450 110th Ave NE
| Bellevue, WA 98004
| `Directions <https://www.google.com/maps/place//@47.6144305,-122.1929512,18z?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI1MDczMC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D>`_
| Free public parking is available from 110th Ave NE, and marked "City Hall Parking". Additional free parking is located along the light rail line.
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_YTYxMTA4NmUtNWVkNy00ZWIxLWE0NjMtODc5MjYyYTg5YWY1%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22f45d2dfd-696a-4229-a0c7-ca3f187583fe%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22d709b655-8df5-4b36-92ee-2cd675614e8d%22%7d>`_
|

Title
~~~~~
The CUDA C++ Developer's Toolbox

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~

Getting the most out of your GPU with C++ doesn't require writing custom kernels or manually managing
storage for everything! Come learn about the libraries and techniques that make writing CUDA C++ code
easier and more performant. Through examples, we'll explore all aspects of writing modern C++ software
for GPUs, including heterogeneous memory management, algorithm design, and synchronization.


During this talk, you'll:

- Learn to evaluate when you should use a CUDA library versus writing your own kernel.

- Explore popular CUDA C++ libraries such as Thrust, CUB, and libcu++.

- Understand how you can easily compose different CUDA libraries and your own custom CUDA C++ code together.

- Build intuition about the performance implications of CUDA libraries.

- You'll leave confident about how to select the best tool for the job to accelerate your C++ applications for your unique use cases.


Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Bryce Adelstein Lelbach has spent over a decade developing programming languages, compilers, and
libraries. He is passionate about parallel programming and strives to make it more accessible for everyone.


Bryce is a Principal Architect at NVIDIA, where he founded the Core C++ Compute Libraries team and
now leads the Vanguard Programming group that drives NVIDIA's roadmap for programming languages,
compilers, and core libraries.


He is a leader of the systems programming language community, having served as chair of the C++
Library Evolution and the US programming language standards committee. He has been an organizer and
program chair for many conferences over the years. On the C++ committee, he has worked on concurrency
primitives, parallel algorithms, senders, and multidimensional arrays.


He previously worked at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and Louisiana State University.
He is one of the founding developers of the HPX parallel runtime system.


Outside of work, Bryce is passionate about airplanes and watches. He lives in Midtown Manhattan
with his girlfriend and dog.


Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Slides </talks/2026/cuda_cpp_developers_toolbox__r11.pptx>`_

`Video <https://youtu.be/NhEHIhYUyFc>`_ 

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
