Oct 17, 2024: Productive Programming with the JAI Programming Language
#############################################################################

:date: 2024-09-22
:slug: Oct-2024
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, Oct 17, 2024 at 6:30 PM
|
| Please be aware of and adhere to the `Microsoft Reactor Code of Conduct <https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/reactor/codeofconduct>`_
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1143 (12) Maple Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NmVjYjlhZjYtOTdjYS00OGIwLTkwMmUtMWE1YjliMWU2MjNi%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f7b2732f-da39-4d7a-b999-3d1a63f1d718%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 226 052 931 290
| Passcode: Ki9MaY
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874
| Phone Conference ID: 857 754 217#

Title
~~~~~
Productive Programming with the JAI Programming Language

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~
JAI is a work-in-progress programming language, originally
designed as a replacement for C++ for use in game development. This
talk will discuss JAI's advantages for increasing programmer
productivity, particularly in creative programming applications.
Particular focus will be given to JAI's powerful compile-time
metaprogramming features, as well as comparisons with other low-level
programming languages including C++ and Rust.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Jatin Chowdhury is an audio signal processing engineer and software developer, with a focus in music technology. He has previously 
studied at the Center for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics (CCRMA), and worked as an Audio Test Engineer for Tesla Motors. 
He currently lives in Seattle, WA, and runs Chowdhury DSP, a boutique audio software company.


Post Meeting Social
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Following the official meeting folks are welcome to wander over to the `Cofee Haus <https://www.google.com/maps/place/Red+Robin+Gourmet+Burgers+and+Brews/@47.6310774,-122.1450308,17z/data=!4m14!1m7!3m6!1s0x54906d086b9bed03:0x4e2e9bc909cdf8d!2sRed+Robin+Gourmet+Burgers+and+Brews!8m2!3d47.6310774!4d-122.1424505!16s%2Fg%2F1tfdd4xn!3m5!1s0x54906d086b9bed03:0x4e2e9bc909cdf8d!8m2!3d47.6310774!4d-122.1424505!16s%2Fg%2F1tfdd4xn?entry=ttu&g_ep=EgoyMDI0MDgyOC4wIKXMDSoASAFQAw%3D%3D>`_ at the Overlake Red Robin (148th Ave and 24th) to continue chatting until they close the doors!


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
