June 20, 2024: CUDA Without a PhD
##################################################################################

:date: 2024-06-01
:slug: June-2024
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, June 20, 2024 at 6:30 PM
|
| Please be aware of and adhere to the `Microsoft Reactor Code of Conduct <https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/reactor/codeofconduct>`_
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1143 (12) Maple Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_YTllMDg2MjAtNjBmZi00YmMxLWE0YmUtMTE1MjMzNDZjODg3%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f7b2732f-da39-4d7a-b999-3d1a63f1d718%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 259 377 183 16
| Passcode: 7BPigvY
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874
| Phone Conference ID: 349 783 660#

Title
~~~~~
CUDA Without a PhD

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~

NVIDIA CUDA is a tool kit for development of GPU accelerated applications. For specific types of applications and computational patterns the GPU allows you to deploy
thousands of cores for processing in a very cost effective manner. 

While getting the full benefit of GPU acceleration can take a considerable amount of knowledge and effort, considerable speedups can be achieved with minimal program changes.

This talk provides an overview of what CUDA is, where it can be effective, and then does a deep dive to convert a simple, sequential data processing loop running as a single
thread on the CPU into a massively parallel operation running on the GPU.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Lloyd Moore is the founder and owner of CyberData Corporation, which provides consulting services in the aerospace, robotics, machine vision and industrial automation fields.
Lloyd has worked in software industry for 35 years. His formal training is in biological-based artificial intelligence, electronics, and psychology. Lloyd is also currently
the president of the Northwest C++ User's Group and an organizer of the Seattle Robotics Society Robothon events.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
