May 16, 2024: Local Reasoning in C++
##################################################################################

:date: 2024-04-23
:slug: May-2024
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, May 16, 2024 at 6:30 PM - 30 minutes earlier!!!
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1143 (12) Maple Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_ZTMzNDIzM2QtYmQ1OS00ODVjLTlhYWEtMjc2NmY1NDNmMDhk%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f7b2732f-da39-4d7a-b999-3d1a63f1d718%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID: 218 364 237 982
| Passcode: 7NAufd
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874
| Phone Conference ID: 697 568 740#

Title
~~~~~
Local Reasoning in C++

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~

Local reasoning is the ability to look at a defined unit of code, a function, or a class, understand it, and verify its correctness without understanding all
the contexts within which it is used. This talk covers local reasoning principles and explores conventions and rules to support local reasoning and develop better interfaces and code.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Sean Parent is a senior principal scientist and software architect managing Adobe’s Software Technology Lab. Sean joined Adobe in 1993, working on Photoshop, and is one of the creators
of Photoshop Web, Photoshop Mobile, Lightroom Mobile, and Lightroom Web. In 2009, Sean spent a year at Google working on Chrome OS before returning to Adobe. From 1988 through 1993,
Sean worked at Apple, where he was part of the system software team that developed the technologies that allowed Apple’s successful transition to PowerPC.

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
`Slides </talks/2024/2024-05-16-local-reasoning-notes.pdf>`_

`Video <https://youtu.be/N7QcM9nDk_k>`_

Note: We had some issues with this recording. We'll do what we can to clean up those issues as we can. In particular the start nmay need to be adjusted and toward the end of the video the Teams session cut out
and was then restored. Sorry about this and we'll work to make the video as clean as we can.

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
