April 11, 2024: Modern C++ package management with Conan 2
##################################################################################

:date: 2024-03-26
:slug: April-2024
:author: Lloyd Moore

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| THURSDAY, April 11, 2024 at 6:30 PM - One week and 30 minutes earlier!!!
|
| In Person:
| Microsoft Redmond Reactor | 3709 157th Ave NE, Redmond, WA 98052
| Conf Room 20/1143 (12) Maple Reactor
| `Map <https://www.google.com/maps/place/3709+157th+Ave+NE,+Redmond,+WA+98052/@47.6436781,-122.1332843,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m6!3m5!1s0x54906d71fad78e11:0x41c6b1be983cf409!8m2!3d47.6436745!4d-122.1310903!16s%2Fg%2F11cs8wbt2c>`_
|
| Remote:
| On Line Using Microsoft Teams
| `Click here to join the meeting <https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjkzZjBjMzktNDZiZC00MmQ3LWFkNzEtZTk1ODAxZjM2NjYx%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%2272f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f7b2732f-da39-4d7a-b999-3d1a63f1d718%22%7d>`_
| Meeting ID:  291 326 024 349
| Passcode: Fo9RNt
|
| Call in (audio only)
| +1 323-849-4874
| Phone Conference ID: 533 838 0#

Title
~~~~~
Modern C++ package management with Conan 2: From fully transparent CMake integration via providers to the latest research in Common Package Specification (CPS) 

Abstract
~~~~~~~~~

Conan 2.0 was released over a year ago with a large number of new features and improvements. Since its release, the team has continued to add improvements based on user feedback,
releasing many more new features than in the previous years combined. 

This talk will introduce and demonstrate many exciting and new features like how CMake presets and dependency providers can give a fully transparent integration, the new interactive
dependency graph visualization, using dependencies from a git repo and new compliance tools. It will also present ongoing work and current efforts in the Common Package Specification (CPS) initiative.

Speaker Bio
~~~~~~~~~~~
Diego Rodriguez-Losada‘s passions are robotics and SW engineering and development. He has developed many years in C and C++ in the Industrial, Robotics and AI fields.
Diego was also a University (tenure track) professor and robotics researcher for 8 years, till 2012, when he quit academia to try to build a C/C++ dependency manager and co-founded a startup.
Since then he mostly develops in Python. Diego is a conan.io C/C++ package manager co-creator and project lead, now working at JFrog as Conan Lead Architect and C/C++ Advocate. 

A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please thank Microsoft for sponsoring our meeting room and Teams account!

Resources
~~~~~~~~~
Coming Soon!

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <https://www.facebook.com/groups/344125680930/>`_
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
