August 9th, 2000 — Building a High Performance Server Product on Win NT/2000 Using C/C++ — Chris Hickman & Joe Mullally
#######################################################################################################################

:date: 2000-08-01
:slug: august-2000

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Avaya Corporation <http://www.avaya.com>`_
| 6464 185th Avenue NE
| Redmond, WA 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Joe will start by talking about building a high performance server
product on Win NT/2000 using C/C++. Specifically:

-  I/O Completion Ports

-  Object and Context Pooling

-  Protocol and Error Mapping

-  When and How to use Spinlock vs Interlocks

-  Efficient Loops

-  Aligning Structs

Chris will then finish with a talk about Viathan Corporation and a
software demo. Jeff and Chris will then take some time to answer
questions.

Bio
~~~

Chris Hickman, CTO and co-founder of Viathan Corporation, oversees the
technical direction of the company, including new product advances and
the development and test processes. Prior to founding Viathan, Chris
worked for Microsoft's Interactive Media Group where he developed core
Internet technologies for the Microsoft Network. As a lead server
developer, he was responsible for design, architecture and
implementation of a storage system for Web-scale applications. He helped
ship two versions of the Microsoft Network and filed for four patents
relating to storage technologies. Prior to Microsoft, Chris spent
several years at Motorola as a software engineer. He was a technical
lead on a software project that developed a suite of Web applications
still used by engineers to facilitate communication and collaboration.

Joe Mullally, Software Development Manager, Viathan Corporation,
is responsible for managing the development process at Viathan including
the design, development, and development resource allocation for
Viathan's distributed data architecture. Prior to joining Viathan, Joe
worked at Microsoft's Internet group developing large scale Internet
data services. Most recently, Joe shipped the first releases of
Microsoft Passport, Microsoft's e-commerce and Web authentication
service. Prior to Microsoft, Joe worked as a Senior Software Engineer at
AVT Corporation.
