May 15, 2013—C++ In the Post-PC Era—Diego Dagum 
###############################################

:date: 2013-04-30
:slug: may-2013
:author: George Reilly

Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| May 15th, 2013 at 7:00 PM
| Microsoft Campus.
| `Building 41/1511–Townsend <http://www.bing.com/maps/?v=2&where1=Microsoft+Building+41>`_


Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Smartphones and tablets made personal computing more personal than ever.
This post-PC era, with its new platforms and technologies,
disrupted how developers design, build and deliver software.
Moreover the fact the traditional PC renewal / replacement cycle is now longer
confirms the notion that attention has shifted to the new form factors.

What role do C++ and C++ developers play in this new scenario?

In this talk, Diego reviews aspects that make C++ unique for ARM-based development,
together with the many challenges and overlooked costs
that C++ developers face when jumping in.
Diego shows how the leading platforms enable C++ through technologies and tools.
He also discusses the state-of-the art in cross-platform approaches with their pros and cons.

You’ll leave this talk with a panorama of the many ways
to use C++ in the post-PC world,
what’s already achieved and what still needs to be done.

Bio
~~~

`Diego Dagum <http://www.linkedin.com/in/diegum>`_
is a professional developer and architect.
He got his first job in C-language back in 1991.
The new century, though, caught him applying Java during the first dot-com wave.
During the last decade, he focused more in the .NET platform.
However, Diego’s all-times passion is C++,
precisely because he considers that true developers don’t need to be managed.

Beside software development,
he writes the column “New Age C++” for
`Visual Studio Magazine <http://visualstudiomagazine.com/articles/list/new-age-c.aspx>`_.
You can follow him on Twitter, `@diedagum <http://twitter.com/diedagum>`_.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Video <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hg7HhkbbEz4>`_ |
`Slides </static/talks/2013/Cpp-post-pc.pdf>`_
