January 8th–9th, 2001 — Microsoft's .NET Initiative — Jeffrey Richter
#####################################################################

:date: 2001-01-01
:slug: january-2001

Location
~~~~~~~~

| Overlake Hospital Conference Center
| 121 107th Ave NE
| Bellevue, WA

NOTE: The Overlake Hospital Conference Center is off Old Main Street and
107th in Bellevue, not at the hospital itself. Take Main Street and turn
North onto 107th, conference center will be on your left.

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

This is a very special, 2-day meeting that we are co-hosting with the
Windows Developer's SIG of the Washington Software Alliance. Please try
to attend both days.

We are very fortunate to have this free presentation from Jeffrey, who
is in great demand as a .NET and Windows development expert. If you
attend only one meeting this year, make it this one.

Microsoft .NET is a radical new computing platform that promises to
change software development as we know it. Programmers who embrace .NET
will no longer write to the Windows API or rely upon tried-and-true
tools such as MFC and ATL. Instead, they'll target a framework called
the .NET Base Class Library (BCL), and a significant percentage of them
will use a new language, C#, to craft their wares. .NET compilers won't
produce native machine code as today's compilers do; instead, they'll
generate a pseudo-machine code called Intermediate Language (IL) that's
executed by the .NET run-time. This new programming paradigm will
simplify the Windows programming model and make Web applications easier
to write than ever before. And it will enable a new generation of
software that runs on every conceivable type of computing device, from
the most powerful Web server to the lowliest hand-held PC.

Bio
~~~

Jeffrey Richter is the author of Microsoft Press' "Programming
Applications for Microsoft Windows" and M & T's "Windows 95: A
Developer's Guide," two of the bibles of Windows development. His newest
book, "Programming Server-Side Applications for Windows 2000," was
published by Microsoft Press in 2000.

Jeffrey is also a frequent contributor to Microsoft's MSDN Magazine
(formerly called MSJ) and other trade publications, and is MSDN's Win32
columnist. More info on Jeffrey at
`http://www.jeffreyrichter.com <http://www.jeffreyrichter.com>`_.

Jeffrey Richter, Jeff Prosise and John Robbins have recently combined
forces to created Wintellect, which will no doubt become the preeminent
training and consulting organization of its kind. Jeffrey's presentation
to us comes from material he's developed for Wintellect courses. More
information at `http://www.wintellect.com <http://www.wintellect.com>`_.
