June 13th, 2001 — Less is More—or How to Get More Bang for Your Code — Andrei Alexandrescu
##########################################################################################

:date: 2001-06-01
:slug: june-2001

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Avaya Corporation <http://www.avaya.com>`_
| 6464 185th Avenue NE
| Redmond, WA 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

If you are tired of writing code, this talk is for you. The scam of the
century - how to get more behavior with less code - will unveil under
your incredulous eyes. Like in those pyramid schemes, a linear
code-writing investment will bring you quick exponential returns. But
this time it's for real. We'll experience that with a real-world
example: 12 (t-w-e-l-v-e) industry-strength implementations of the
popular standard string, std::basic\_string, in a very compact
presentation. Better yet, you can add your pet implementation,
optimization, or feature with ease. Even better, the code compiles with
the compiler produced by a software company near you. Which, you have to
admit, makes the whole thing as real-world as it gets. Disclaimer:
Motion sickness bags not provided. Attendance is at your own risk.

Bio
~~~

Andrei Alexandrescu is a Development Manager at RealNetworks Inc., based
in Seattle, WA, and author of the acclaimed book Modern C++ Design. He
may be contacted at andrei@metalanguage.com. Andrei is also a columnist
for C/C++ Users Journal and one of the featured instructors of
`The C++ Seminar <http://www.gotw.ca/cpp_seminar>`_.
