November 18th, 2009 — Metaprogramming in D : Some Real-world Examples — Bill Baxter
###################################################################################

:date: 2009-11-01
:slug: november-2009

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Microsoft Corporation <http://www.microsoft.com>`_
| Building 41
| One Microsoft Way
| Redmond, Washington 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

In the D Programming Language
it is possible for even mere mortals to write code that executes at compile-time.
And the resulting code is generally even human readable!
In this talk I'll show some of the metaprogramming techniques available in D today,
primarily by examining various tricks I've found useful in my own code —
in vector and matrix classes, in my port of the OpenMesh C++ library to D, and so on.
I'll make some attempt to relate these back to C++ as well,
though my threshold for pain is not very high.

Bio
~~~

Bill Baxter is a researcher in the eXtreme Computing Group of Microsoft Research,
currently working on GPU applications.
Before moving to Washington earlier this year,
Bill was a computer graphics researcher and frequent sushi consumer at OLM Digital in Tokyo,
the company best known for its Pokemon animations.
Bill has been using C++ for about 15 years, and D for the last three.
Bill has a Ph.D. in computer science from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Sometimes he can be found strumming a guitar
to temporarily escape the workaday worries of the world.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Slides </static/talks/2009/NWCPP-D-meta-baxter-11-18-2009.pptx>`_
