April 15th, 2009 — Axum: The Language Of Agents — Artur Laksberg
################################################################

:date: 2009-04-01
:slug: april-2009

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Microsoft Corporation <http://www.microsoft.com>`_
| Building 41
| One Microsoft Way
| Redmond, Washington 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Axum is an incubation project in Microsoft's Parallel Computing Team.
A .Net programming language based on asynchronous agents, isolation, and message-passing,
Axum allows developers to partition their applications
into isolated components that communicate with each other via message passing
and access shared state in a disciplined way.

Axum has not yet been released by Microsoft but it is nearing its first public beta.
Please check out Axum team blog at
`http://blogs.msdn.com/maestroteam <http://blogs.msdn.com/maestroteam>`_.

Bio
~~~

Artur Laksberg is a software design engineer in the Parallel Computing Team at Microsoft.
During his career, Artur was involved in various projects
including Visual C++ compiler and SQL Server.
Over the last year, Artur has been a member of a small team in the Developer Division
incubating new technologies for parallel programming.
Native of Estonia, Artur lives in Redmond with his wife and son.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

-  Download the `slides </talks/2009/Axum_Presentation.pptx>`_
   and `source code </talks/2009/Axum_Presentation_code.zip>`_
   from the presentation.
-  Watch the `video <http://www.vimeo.com/4438927>`_ for a video of the presentation.
-  `Axum is now publicly available!
   <http://blogs.msdn.com/maestroteam/archive/2009/05/07/the-first-axum-bits-are-now-available.aspx>`_
