September 16th, 2009 — Ownership System Against Data Races — Bartosz Milewski
#############################################################################

:date: 2009-09-01
:slug: september-2009

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Microsoft Corporation <http://www.microsoft.com>`_
| Building 41
| One Microsoft Way
| Redmond, Washington 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

After reading a bunch of papers about type systems
that prevent data races in multithreaded programs,
I asked myself the question:
Short of a type system, can a clever methodology be used to prevent data races?
It turns out that clear understanding of what data is shared
and which operations are inherently unsafe
goes a long way towards eliminating sources of data races.
I'll talk about monitors, ownership, alias control,
unique objects and lock-free programming,
all in the service of race-free concurrency.

Bio
~~~

Bartosz Milewski has a Ph.D. in Theoretical Physics.
He published several papers on Quantum Gravity and String Theory
before he switched to programming and Computer Science.
He was project lead for the Microsoft search engine before the Internet explosion.
He published a book, *C++ In Action*.
Bartosz keeps up with the latest developments in CS
by attending graduate courses and seminars at the UW.
He actively works on the design of the D language.
He regularly blogs about concurrency at
`http://BartoszMilewski.wordpress.com <http://BartoszMilewski.wordpress.com>`_.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Slides </static/talks/2009/Ownership_Systems_against_Data_Races.pdf>`_ |
`Video <http://www.vimeo.com/6689999>`_
