October 20th, 2010 — Steve Yegge — Scaling and Standardizing Programming Language Analysis at Google
####################################################################################################

:date: 2010-10-01
:slug: october-2010
:author: George Reilly

Wednesday, October 20, 2010, at 7pm. 41/1511, Microsoft.
Come early to socialize and eat pizza.

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Modern IDEs and compilers generate a wealth of information,
and you can't have any of it.
Tools in the compiler family — even the best IDEs — tend to be monolithic, language-specific,
generally non-scalable special-purpose applications.
Even when they do support headless analysis, none of them do it the same way,
and very few of them can do cross-language analysis.
At Google, I've put together a team with the long-term goal of addressing these problems
in a general way.
We've built infrastructure to run IDE-quality code analyzers such
as `Eclipse <http://www.eclipse.org/>`_ and `clang <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clang>`_
over Google's entire corpus and all open-source code.
We translate the intermediate representations into a language-neutral index,
then serve the index data back through language-neutral APIs and query interfaces.
In this talk I'll share what we've done so far,
then about our longer-term plans for an open platform.

Bio
~~~

`Steve Yegge <http://steve-yegge.blogspot.com/>`_ graduated
from the University of Washington with a B.S. in Computer Science.
He spent five years as a developer and team lead at Geoworks,
several years at various startups,
and then more than six years at Amazon.com as a Senior Development Manager.
He joined Google in 2005 and is a Staff Software Engineer in the Kirkland office,
currently working on scaling language analysis.
Steve lives in downtown Kirkland with his lovely wife Linh and their faithful furry sidekick Cino.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Video <http://vimeo.com/16069687>`_ of Steve's talk.
