February 20th, 2008 — Memory Allocation: Either Love It or Hate It. (Or Just Think It's OK.) — Andrei Alexandrescu
##################################################################################################################

:date: 2008-02-01
:slug: february-2008

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Microsoft Corporation <http://www.microsoft.com>`_
| Building 41
| One Microsoft Way
| Redmond, Washington 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Memory allocation is a problem so wicked,
many people think it's either solved or unsolvable.
This talk goes through the gory details of memory allocation;
what the classic designs are;
how special handcrafted allocators may improve (or degrade)
the bottom line performance of your application;
how to write a policy-based allocator with a modular design
that beats a monolithic handcrafted one;
and how the advent of manycores influences allocator designs.
Ninety leak-free minutes.

Bio
~~~

Andrei Alexandrescu has achieved the rare feat of becoming an authority
in both industry and research circles.
He almost single-handedly revolutionized and reinvented C++ programming
with his seminal book, *Modern C++ Design*.
Andrei's other publications include the
award-winning *C++ Coding Standards* book (as a coauthor),
four peer-reviewed academic papers,
and dozens of articles in top trade journals,
either under the byline of his Generic<Programming> column,
or as a featured author.

After having worked in fields as varied as banking, databases, and Internet applications,
Andrei is focusing on graph-based statistical modeling
for natural language processing (NLP),
field rife with huge data sets,
computationally-intensive algorithms,
and massively parallel execution.
His vast expertise, presence, and humor
make Andrei a sought-after speaker at technical conferences.

Andrei holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from University "Politehnica" Bucharest
and an MS in Computer Science from University of Washington,
where he is also a graduating PhD in Summer 2008.
(N.B. He will soon be looking for a job.)
His web site is `http://erdani.com/ <http://erdani.com/>`_.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

Download the `slides </talks/2008/memory-allocation.screen.pdf>`_
from the presentation.

Watch the `video <http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=8718136231005757634>`_
of the presentation.
