April 16th, 2008 — Programming Declaratively in C++ Using the Logic Paradigm — Roshan Naik
##########################################################################################

:date: 2008-04-01
:slug: april-2008

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Microsoft Corporation <http://www.microsoft.com>`_
| Building 41
| One Microsoft Way
| Redmond, Washington 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

The Logic paradigm (LP) is a powerful, Turing-complete programming paradigm
that has seen little representation in mainstream languages
as compared to the Object-Oriented, Imperative and Functional paradigms.
LP is an important approach in Computer Science towards
what is sometimes referred to as the Holy-Grail of programming,
"The user states the problem, the computer solves it".
Origins of the theory underlying Logic dates back to about 300 B.C.
when Aristotle founded Formal Logic to bring rigor to logical inferencing.
The theory matured into Modern Logic more recently (early 1900s)
when Russell & Whitehead showed that all of Mathematics could be reduced to Logic.
This talk will provide an introduction to the basics of LP in C++,
followed by examples to develop a feel for thinking
in terms of this paradigm and understand how it blends with the other paradigms.
We finally broaden the scope to see how powerful multiparadigm solutions emerge
when programmers can freely mix and match paradigms.
All code will use standard C++ and
Castor, an open source library
(available from `www.mpprogramming.com <http://www.mpprogramming.com>`_)
which brings the Logic paradigm to C++.

Bio
~~~

`Roshan Naik <mailto:roshan@mpprogramming.com>`_
is an R&D engineer at Hewlett-Packard.
He specializes in multiparadigm programming techniques.
Roshan is also author of `Castor <http://www.mpprogramming.com>`_,
an open source library which brings the Logic Paradigm to C++.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

Download the `slides </static/talks/2008/Roshan_Naik_Programming_Declaratively_In_C___using_the_Logic_Paradigm.pptx>`_
from the presentation.
