September 17th, 2008 — Functional Programming with F# — Chris Smith
###################################################################

:date: 2008-09-01
:slug: september-2008

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Microsoft Corporation <http://www.microsoft.com>`_
| Building 41
| One Microsoft Way
| Redmond, Washington 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

With developers reaching the limits for what Object-Oriented programming can do,
they are looking for a new programming paradigm to lead to
cleaner, more elegant solutions.
Functional Programming has been around since the 1930s
but has never been able to go mainstream... until now.
This talk will cover Functional Programming
and how it improves on traditional Imperative or Object-Oriented paradigms
by introducing the F# programming language,
Microsoft's latest addition to the .NET pantheon.

As for concurrency,
F# can not only build off the .NET threading libraries (which are OK)
but also introduces a concept called
`Asynchronous Workflows <http://www.strangelights.com/blog/archive/2007/10/15/1599.aspx>`_,
which makes writing async code trivial.
I'll be sure to cover that in my talk.

Bio
~~~

Chris Smith is a tester at Microsoft on the F# team,
working hard to bring functional programming to the .NET community.
Before joining with F#, Chris worked on various parts of Visual Studio
from WCF support to the Settings and Resource designers.
Chris lives in the Seattle area and enjoys skiing, indoor soccer,
and blogging about F# at
`http://blogs.msdn.com/chrsmith <http://blogs.msdn.com/chrsmith>`_.


Resources
~~~~~~~~~

Download the `slides </talks/2008/Functional_Programming_with_F.pdf>`_
from the presentation.
