March 18th 2015: The Go Programming Language
###############################################################

:date: 2015-02-28
:slug: march-2015
:author: Rohit Patnaik


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| March 18th, 2015 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <{filename}/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Go for C++ devs
The talks covers the basics of Go: its origin, philosophy, and main features.
It has a focus on how C++ aspects map (or not) onto Go, giving special detail to object orientation, inheritance vs 
composition, and interfaces.
Last but not least, concurrency is a first class citizen in Go, so an overview and demonstration will conclude the talk.


Bio
~~~

Francesc Campoy Flores is a Developer Advocate for Go and the Cloud at Google. He joined the Go team in 2012 and since then he has written some considerable didactic resources and traveled the world attending conferences, organizing live courses, and meeting fellow gophers. He joined Google in 2011 as a backend software engineer working mostly in C++ and Python, but it was with Go that he rediscovered how fun programming can be.

You can find him on twitter as @francesc.


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We’re thrilled to be a NWCPP sponsor! Xtreme Consulting is locally owned and headquartered in Kirkland, WA. We provide a wide-range of business and IT consulting solutions, managed services, and staff augmentation. We actively recruit for fun, smart, and career-driven IT professionals who bring an enthusiasm for personal growth and accelerating success for our clients. Xtreme’s consultants are provided the opportunity to work with and for some of the best technology companies in the industry. We work hard to create a passionate, supportive environment where employees can reach their career development goals, enjoy exceptional benefits, and have fun all at the same time.

Xtreme focuses on solutions and services including analysis, design, architecture, development, testing, implementation, maintenance and support of a variety of software technologies with specific emphasis on portal development, technical content creation, virtual machine environments and client and server deployment. Visitxtremeconsulting.com for more information. You can view and apply to our open positions at http://www.xtremeconsulting.com/careers.
Xtreme Contact: info@xtremeconsulting.com
