October 21th 2015: Qt in the Embedded World - How to create a device using Qt
#############################################################################

:date: 2015-10-07
:slug: october-2015
:author: Lloyd Moore


Time and Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

| October 21st, 2015 at 7:00 PM
| Steptoe Room, `Cafeteria 40 <{filename}/locations/steptoe.rst>`_,
| Microsoft Campus,
| 156th Ave NE,
| Redmond, WA 98052.


Abstract
~~~~~~~~
This presentation will discuss the tools are necessary to develop embedded software with Qt and what differences there are between each of the supported embedded platforms. The presentation will also  cover using both the open source version of Qt as well as the commercial version and what the differences are in the context of device creation. Many live demonstrations will be used to illustrate how easy it is to develop software for embedded devices with Qt and its tooling.


Bio
~~~
Matthew Zanardi – Matt is the Northwest Account Manager for The Qt Company. He was born and raised in the Bay Area and Graduated from Michigan State University. If you want to inquire about anything Qt please reach out to him. Email: matthew.zanardi@theqtcompany.com (408)499-8319.


Shrikant Dhumal works as senior Consulting Engineer for "The Qt Company". Shrikant has a Masters in holds Computer Science and has a real passion for the industry. He has been associated with Qt since 2001 (version Qt 3.0.x) and is one top consultants. He has worked on porting Qt to different embedded platforms which involves integrating/implementing Qt Graphics plugins.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~


A Word From Our Sponsor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mainz Brady Group is a privately held staffing firm originally based in California; with offices in San Mateo, Oakland, Portland, and Seattle. It was founded in 2003 by Richard Mainz and Eric Brady; both have over 25 years of technical staffing experience and have held executive level positions within large, international staffing organizations.
 
MBG was created because we believed there was a better way of recruiting: one in which the needs of our clients and candidates come first. Our relationship-based approach focuses on both clients and candidates and their unique and individual needs. We want to positively impact the people and businesses of the technology communities we support.
 
Mainz Brady Group is a technology focused recruiting firm, and is recognized as a leader in providing comprehensive employment and staffing solutions to the best known companies; in finance, retail, research & development, sports equipment, healthcare, biotechnology, gaming, and telecommunications. 
 

Digital Media Links
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Sign up for our `announcements mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/NwcppAnnounce1>`_ If you want to be more involved, sign up for our `volunteers <http://groups.google.com/group/nwcpp-volunteers>`_ list
* Check out our web page at http://www.nwcpp.org/
* Follow `@nwcpp <http://twitter.com/nwcpp>`_ on Twitter
* Join our `Facebook Group <http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=344125680930>`_
* Follow our `Google+ <https://plus.google.com/104974891006782790528/>`_ page
* Tune in to our `YouTube <http://www.youtube.com/user/NWCPP>`_ and `Vimeo <https://vimeo.com/nwcpp>`_ channels
