February 11th, 2004 — C++ Development for PocketPC, SmartPhone, and Windows CE — Nishan Jebanasam & Rich Hanbidge
#################################################################################################################

:date: 2004-02-01
:slug: february-2004

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Avaya Corporation <http://www.avaya.com>`_
| 6464 185th Avenue NE
| Redmond, WA 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Learn about the new native device development feature
in the next release of Visual Studio.
This talk will cover developing, debugging and deploying C++ applications
to Pocket PC, Smartphone and Windows CE.
It will also cover improvements made since eMbedded Visual C++
and the work being done in the native frameworks such as MFC and ATL

Bios
~~~~

Nishan Jebanasam
----------------

I graduated from the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia
with a double degree in Computer Engineering and Goofing Off,
and gave up the miserable weather and horrid beaches
for the fairer climate of Seattle.
I’ve been in the Smart Devices team for over two-and-a-half years now,
first as a Release Program Manager,
and subsequently as the PM for Native C++ for Device development features.
In my spare time I like to scuba dive, snowboard, play Halo
and flirt with the Seattle Police in my Lancer Evo.
I’m desperately hoping MS stock will one day allow me to afford the 911 Turbo that I long for.

Rich Hanbidge
-------------

I graduated from University of Michigan in 98 with a BSE in Computer Engineering.
I grew up just outside of Detroit, and saw my first mountain
during an interview with HP in Fort Collins, CO.
I promptly decided to flee the flatness of the Midwest.
My first job was working on avionics software with Honeywell,
until I realized they were actually putting my code on airplanes… 
Since I need to fly back to Detroit to see my family, this was a problem for me.
Now I am a developer in Visual Studio for Devices to support my snowboarding problem.
I’ve been here about 3.5 years,
and holding a close second for “grumpy old man” of this group.
When I’m not complaining to the newbies
about how fun this group was before they got here,
I’m trying to help write a kick-ass native debugger for devices.

`Click here </talks/2004/C_UserGroup-_Developing_for_Devices_Using_Native_C___with_Visual_Studio__With_Notes_.ppt>`_
to download the slides and source code from Nishan Jebanasam's presentation
