May 12th, 2004 — Improving Testability — Dave Catlett
#####################################################

:date: 2004-05-01
:slug: may-2004

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Avaya Corporation <http://www.avaya.com>`_
| 6464 185th Avenue NE
| Redmond, WA 98052

Improving Testability: Decreasing the cost of developing and maintaining software while increasing quality
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Thorough testing can be expensive in terms of time and resources,
especially if the software component or the systems it interacts with
are difficult to test.
It is necessary though in order to deliver high quality software
that meets the user's needs.
By designing testability features into the component, not only is testing easier,
it helps enforce good design principles,
it makes diagnosing unexpected behavior go faster,
it can improve manageability of the component,
and it reduces the cost of supporting the software after it "ships."
In short, it increases quality while reducing cost.

Determining testability can be achieved using the SOCK analysis method,
where S=Simplicity, O=Observability, C=Control, and K=Knowledge of expected results.
For example, using an observer design pattern class to increase observability
will not only make it easier for an automated test to determine pass or fail
at any given point in time,
it will provide a history of events
making diagnosis of a bug much easier both during the development cycle
and by the support team after the software is shipped.
We will go through this and other practical examples
of how to improve testability by improve in each area of SOCK.

Bio
~~~

Dave Catlett has been testing software
and developing people, tools and techniques for testing software for over 12 years.
In his current role as Test Architect for the Microsoft Windows Networking & Devices group,
Dave has been researching and implementing methods to decrease the costs
while increasing the quality of software throughout the engineering lifecycle.
Dave holds a B.S. in Computer Science/Math from the University of Puget Sound
and more importantly is a husband to Erika and dad to Josh, Emilie and Sara.
He's also pursuing a career as world-famous groundskeeper
for the Eastlake Little League Dodgers of which his son is a starting pitcher.
Go blue!

`Click here </static/talks/2004/ImprovingTestabilityNWCPP.ppt>`_
to download the slides from the presentation
