March 8th, 2004 — Code Complete 2: A Decade of Advances in Software Construction — Steve McConnell
##################################################################################################

:date: 2004-03-01
:slug: march-2004

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Overlake Hospital Conference Center <http://www.overlakehospital.org/conferencecenter/fs.htm>`_
| 1035 116th Ave NE
| Bellevue, Washington, 98004

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

Please note that in order to offset some of the costs necessary to host
this meeting, there will be a **$10 charge to non-NWCPP and non-WSA members**.
Membership in the NWCPP is **free**, and is a great way to
ensure that you may attend this meeting for free.
To become a member, visit the `Membership <{filename}/about/about.rst>`_ page
and join our mailing list.
**Only members on the NWCPP mailing list and WSA members may attend the meeting for free!**

For more than 10 years, Code Complete has been a computing-industry bestseller.
The past decade has seen the emergence of object-oriented programming,
the Internet, the CMM, offshore outsourcing, Java, Visual Basic,
and the Agile movement,
as well as staggering advances in computing power and numerous other developments.
How have 10 years of advances changed software construction?
Has the general state of programming improved?
Are any of the old techniques still relevant?
Has anything moved backward?
Award-winning author Steve McConnell explores the software issues
of yesterday and today
and arrives at a few lasting truths about software development.
This talk is based on Code Complete Second Edition, available in June 2004.

Bio
~~~

Steve McConnell is CEO and Chief Software Engineer at
`Construx Software <http://www.construx.com>`_,
where he writes books and articles, teaches classes,
and oversees Construx’s software engineering practices.

Steve is the author of Code Complete (1993) and Rapid Development (1996),
both winners of Software Development magazine's Jolt award for
outstanding software development books of their respective years.
In 1998, he published Software Project Survival Guide.
His most recent book is Professional Software Development (2003). 

Steve has worked in the desktop software industry since 1984
and has expertise in rapid development methodologies, project estimation,
software construction practices, performance tuning, system integration,
and third-party contract management.

Steve also served as Editor in Chief of IEEE Software from 1998-2002 and
is a member of IEEE Computer Society and ACM. 

Steve earned a master's degree in software engineering from Seattle University
and a bachelor's degree from Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington.

Send email to `Steve McConnell <mailto:steve.mcconnell@construx.com>`_.

Please note that in order to accommodate the increased attendance, this
meeting will be held on **Monday** at the **Overlake Medical Conference
Center** rather than our usual Wednesday meeting at Avaya.

`Click here </talks/2004/CodeComplete-Keynote.pdf>`_
to download the slides from the presentation
