October 19th, 2011 — Asynchronous Tasks in C++11 — Bartosz Milewski
###################################################################

:date: 2011-10-01
:slug: october-2011
:author: George Reilly

Come at 6:30 for pizza provided by
`Summit Group Solutions, LLC <http://www.summitgroupsolutions.com/>`_!

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

One of the goals of the new `C++11 Standard <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B11>`_
was to provide support for concurrency, in particular for thread-based concurrency.
But threads don’t scale very well.
Do C++ tasks, which are created using ``std::async``, offer a scalable solution?
Can they implement task-based parallelism?

Bio
~~~

Bartosz Milewski has a Ph.D. in Quantum Physics and many years of experience as a C++ programmer.
He worked at Microsoft on the Context Index—a search engine before the Internet\
—still an active part of Windows 7.
He designed the first distributed version control system,
`Code Co-op <http://www.relisoft.com/co_op/>`_ (before BitKeeper and Git).
Bartosz took part in the design of the `D language <http://www.digitalmars.com/d/2.0/index.html>`_.
His main topics of interest are concurrent and distributed computing.
He works at Corensic, a Seattle startup that makes a concurrency bug detector,
`Jinx <http://www.corensic.com/Products.aspx>`_.
He regularly publishes a blog at
`http://BartoszMilewski.wordpress.com <http://BartoszMilewski.wordpress.com>`_
and a series of `C++11 Concurrency tutorials 
<http://www.corensic.com/Learn/Resources/ConcurrencyTutorialPartOne.aspx>`_.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Slides </talks/2011/asynctasksinc11.pptx>`_ and
`video <http://vimeo.com/30868784>`_ of Bartosz's talk.
