June 15th, 2011 — Avoiding Over and Under Design — Alan Shalloway
#################################################################

:date: 2011-06-01
:slug: june-2011
:author: George Reilly

Come at 6:30pm for the pizza provided by `Corensic <http://www.corensic.com/>`_.

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

The question of how much design to do up-front on a project is an engaging one.
Too much design often results in overkill, complexity, and wasted work.
Too little design results in insufficient system structures
that require rework, additional complexity, and wasted effort.
How can we know what the right balance is?
Alan Shalloway shows how to use the advice from Design Patterns
coupled with the attitude of not building what you don’t need from Agile.
The trick is in discovering what you don’t know, how it may affect you,
and then how to isolate these risks in your code in a simple manner.
Alan describes the essence of emergent design
– that is, starting with a simple design and letting it evolve as the requirements evolve.
He also demonstrates how to refactor to better designs
and how this is different from refactoring bad code.

Bio
~~~

**Alan Shalloway** is the founder and CEO of `Net Objectives <http://www.netobjectives.com/>`_.
With over 40 years of experience, Alan is an industry thought leader
in Lean, Kanban, Scrum and design patterns.
He helps companies transition to Lean and Agile methods enterprise-wide
as well teaches courses in these areas.
Alan has developed training and coaching methods for Lean-Agile
that have helped his clients achieve long-term, sustainable productivity gains.
He is a popular speaker at prestigious conferences worldwide.
He is the primary author of
`Design Patterns Explained: A New Perspective on Object-Oriented Design
<http://www.netobjectives.com/resources/books/design-patterns-explained>`_,
`Lean-Agile Pocket Guide for Scrum Teams
<http://www.netobjectives.com/resources/books/lean-agile-pocket-guide-scrum-teams>`_,
`Lean-Agile Software Development: Achieving Enterprise Agility
<http://www.netobjectives.com/resources/books/lean-agile-software-development>`_,
and is currently writing
`Essential Skills for the Agile Developer
<http://www.netobjectives.com/resources/books/essential-skills-agile-developers>`_.
Alan has worked in literally dozens of industries over his career.
He is a co-founder and board member for the
`Lean Software and Systems Consortium <http://www.leanssc.org/>`_.
He has a Masters in Computer Science from M.I.T.
as well as a Masters in Mathematics from Emory University.
You can follow Alan on Twitter,
`@alshalloway <http://twitter.com/alshalloway>`_

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

`Slides </static/talks/2011/avoidingoverandunderdesigncpp.pdf>`_
and `video <http://vimeo.com/25209064>`_ of Alan's talk.
