February 21st, 2007 — Text Processing with Boost — Eric Niebler
###############################################################

:date: 2007-02-01
:slug: february-2007

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Microsoft Corporation <http://www.microsoft.com>`_
| Building 41
| One Microsoft Way
| Redmond, Washington 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

The abysmal support in the C and C++ standard libraries
for string handling has driven many programmers
to other languages like Perl and Python.
Boost aims to reverse that trend.
Libraries such as ``Boost.Lexical_cast``, ``Boost.String_algo``,
``Boost.Regex``, ``Boost.Xpressive``, and ``Boost.Spirit``
are invaluable tools for slicing and dicing strings. 
If your task is as simple as turning an integer into a string,
or as  complicated as developing a parser generator for a new scripting  language,
Boost has a library that can help.
In addition to covering  all the afore mentioned libraries from a user's perspective,
we'll  also look at how Boost can be used to get more out of the standard  IOstreams,
and discover some hidden gems in Boost for dealing with Unicode.

Bio
~~~

Eric is an independent software consultant currently working
with Dave Abrahams and Boost Consulting.
He is a former employee of Microsoft Research and Visual C++,
and his writings about C++ have been published
in the *C/C++ User's Journal* and *MSDN Magazine*.
When he's not writing C++ for money, Eric has been known to write C++ for fun.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

Download the `slides </talks/2007/Text_Processing_With_Boost.ppt>`_ from the presentation.

Watch the `video <http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=3723782552647089226&hl=en>`_
of the presentation.
