May 23rd, 2007 — The Zero Debugger — Cristian Vlasceanu
#######################################################

:date: 2007-05-01
:slug: may-2007

Location
~~~~~~~~

| `Microsoft Corporation <http://www.microsoft.com>`_
| Building 41
| One Microsoft Way
| Redmond, Washington 98052

Abstract
~~~~~~~~

In this presentation, I will:

#.  overview the debugging support provided at the OS level on Linux,
    how limitations in the design impacts debugger architecture
#.  share with the group my experience in implementing a C++ debugger on Linux
#.  underline the power of adding a scripting language to a debugger,
    and shine the light on the Boost.Python library
#.  Extending debugger support to other languages, namely Walter Bright's D.

I found that debugger architecture lends itself well to the paradigms of C++.
I may give some examples;
however there is not enough time to outline the complete architecture
at the C++ source level of detail.

And last but not least...
DISCLAIMER: I am not interested in talking about
the political aspects of Linux / OpenSource / GPL in this setting.
I intend to keep the discussion rather technical.

Bio
~~~

The Zero debugger was created by Cristian Vlasceanu.
He works on custom interpreters and language translators in his daytime job,
and hacks Zero at night.

Cristian is a lifelong friend of Andrei Alexandrescu
and has programmed in  C++ for over a decade.
He suggested the name Loki for the C++ library described
in the ground breaking book *Modern C++ Design*.

After spending a couple of years in Atlanta,
Cristian has moved to Seattle and has lived in the Pacific Northwest since 2000.

Cristian has written a couple of technical articles
for the now defunct *C/C++ Users Journal*,
blogs infrequently, and is a veteran of Amazon.com and RealNetworks.

Resources
~~~~~~~~~

Download the `slides </talks/2007/anatomy_of_zero.pdf>`_ from the presentation.
